 ORACLS- OPTIMAL REGULATOR ALGORITHMS FOR THE CONTROL OF LINEAR SYSTEMS

( NASA Langley Research Center )

     This control theory design package, called Optimal Regulator Algo-
rithms for the Control of Linear Systems (ORACLS), was developed to aid in
the design of controllers and optimal filters for systems which can be mod-
eled by linear, time-invariant differential and difference equations.
Optimal linear quadratic regulator theory, currently referred to as the
Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian (LQG) problem, has become the most widely ac-
cepted method of determining optimal control policy. Within this theory,
the infinite duration time-invariant problems, which lead to constant
gain feedback control laws and constant Kalman-Bucy filter gains for re-
construction of the system state, exhibit high tractability and potential
ease of implementation. A variety of new and efficient methods in the field
of numerical linear algebra have been combined into the ORACLS program,
which provides for the solution to time-invariant continuous or discrete
LQG problems. The ORACLS package is particularly attractive to the con-
trol system designer because it provides a rigorous tool for dealing with
multi-input and multi-output dynamic systems in both continuous and dis-
crete form.

     The ORACLS programming system is a collection of subroutines which
can be used to formulate, manipulate, and solve various LQG design prob-
lems. The ORACLS program is constructed in a manner which permits the user
to maintain considerable flexibility at each operational state. This flex-
ibility is accomplished by providing primary operations, analysis of lin-
ear time-invariant systems, and control synthesis based on LQG methodol-
ogy. The input-output routines handle the reading and writing of numeri-
cal matrices, printing heading information, and accumulating output in-
formation. The basic vector-matrix operations include addition, subtrac-
tion, multiplication, equation, norm construction, tracing, transposi-
tion, scaling, juxtaposition, and construction of null and identity ma-
trices. The analysis routines provide for the following computations: the
eigenvalues and eigenvectors of real matrices; the relative stability of a
given matrix; matrix factorization; the solution of linear constant coef-
ficient vector-matrix algebraic equations; the controllability properties
of a linear time-invariant system; the steady-state covariance matrix of an
open-loop stable system forced by white noise; and the transient response
of continuous linear time-invariant systems.

     The control law design routines of ORACLS implement some of the more
common techniques of time-invariant LQG methodology. For the finite-
duration optimal linear regulator problem with noise-free measurements,
continuous dynamics, and integral performance index, a routine is provided
which implements the negative exponential method for finding both the tran-
sient and steady-state solutions to the matrix Riccati equation. For the
discrete version of this problem, the method of backwards differencing is
applied to find the solutions to the discrete Riccati equation. A routine
is also included to solve the steady-state Riccati equation by the Newton
algorithms described by Klein, for continuous problems, and by Hewer, for



                                        1

discrete problems. Another routine calculates the prefilter gain to elim-
inate control state cross-product terms in the quadratic performance in-
dex and the weighting matrices for the sampled data optimal linear regula-
tor problem. For cases with measurement noise, duality theory and optimal
regulator algorithms are used to calculate solutions to the continuous and
discrete Kalman-Bucy filter problems. Finally, routines are included to
implement the continuous and discrete forms of the explicit (model-in-the-
system) and implicit (model-in-the-performance-index) model following
theory. These routines generate linear control laws which cause the out-
put of a dynamic time-invariant system to track the output of a prescribed
model.

     In order to apply ORACLS, the user must write an executive (driver)
program which inputs the problem coefficients, formulates and selects the
routines to be used to solve the problem, and specifies the desired output.
There are three versions of ORACLS source code available for implementa-
tion: CDC, IBM, and DEC. The CDC version has been implemented on a CDC 6000
series computer with a central memory of approximately 13K (octal) of 60 bit
words. The CDC version is written in FORTRAN IV, was developed in 1978, and
last updated in 1989. The IBM version has been implemented on an IBM 370 se-
ries computer with a central memory requirement of approximately 300K of
8 bit bytes. The IBM version is written in FORTRAN IV and was generated in
1981. The DEC version has been implemented on a VAX series computer operat-
ing under VMS. The VAX version is written in FORTRAN 77 and was generated in
1986.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                DEC VAX VERSION

LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 9,833 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX BACKUP Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: GSC-13067

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $40.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $80.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2




                                  CDC VERSION

LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC CYBER 170 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 6,671 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-12313

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $40.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $80.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                  IBM VERSION

LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 370 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 6,200 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-12953

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $40.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $80.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        3

