 AESOP- AN EXPERT SYSTEM ENGINE WITH OPERATIVE PROBABILITIES

( CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIV. )

     AESOP is a rule-based inference engine for an expert system, which
makes decisions about a particular situation given user-supplied hypothe-
ses, rules, and answers to questions drawn from the rules. If a knowledge
base containing the hypotheses and rules governing an environment is avail-
able to AESOP, almost any situation within that environment can be resolved
by answering the questions asked by AESOP. The questions can be answered
with YES, NO, MAYBE, DON'T KNOW, DON'T CARE, or with a probability factor
ranging from zero to ten. AESOP was developed as a tool for expert system
development. Although it is probably not suitable for the final implemen-
tation of most expert systems applications, AESOP can serve as a fast means
of developing a proof-of-concept test system. It also can be valuable in
allowing the majority of the knowledge engineering to be done before com-
mittment to a final implementation mechanism. The sample AESOP rule file
contains data for determining if tasks in space should be automated or per-
formed by humans. The initial prompt asks what task is under consideration,
and AESOP asks questions about feasibility and performance until one of the
original hypotheses (automate or perform by humans) is confirmed.

     The rule file contains the initial prompt, the rules and mutually ex-
clusive rules used in the decision making, the hypotheses, and the proba-
bility factors for each rule in a hypothesis. AESOP builds a top-down logic
tree structure. If a reply is DON'T KNOW, the rule base is checked for ex-
isting questions which may solve the dilemma. This allows several levels of
rules to exist within a particular level containing more specific decision
criteria. When any hypothesis reaches 90 percent certainty, AESOP prints a
final confirming message. The user can ask WHY or HOW for a detailed list of
the evidence confirming the hypothesis. The status of all initial hypothe-
ses posed to AESOP is stored in a file for later reference.

     AESOP is written in Franz LISP for interactive execution and has been
implemented on a DEC VAX series computer. This program was developed in
1984.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: LISP

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 675 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX FILES-11 Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-13382

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $12.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $24.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00


                                        1

