 GASP - THERMODYNAMIC AND TRANSPORT PROPERTIES OF HELIUM, METHANE, NEON,
NITROGEN, CARBON MONOXIDE, CARBON DIOXIDE, OXYGEN, AND ARGON

( NASA Lewis Research Center )

     A computer program, GASP, has been written to calculate the thermo-
dynamic and transport properties of argon, carbon dioxide, carbon monox-
ide, fluorine, methane, neon, nitrogen, and oxygen. GASP accepts any two
of pressure, temperature, or density as input. In addition, entropy and en-
thalpy are possible inputs. Outputs are temperature, density, pressure,
entropy, enthalpy, specific heats, expansion coefficient, sonic velocity,
viscosity, thermal conductivity, and surface tension. A special technique
is provided to estimate the thermal conductivity near the thermodynamic
critical point.

     GASP is a group of FORTRAN subroutines. The user typically would write
a main program that invoked GASP to provide only the described outputs.
Subroutines are structured so that the user may call only those subroutines
needed for his particular calculations.

     Allowable pressures range from 0.l atmosphere to 100 to l,000 atmo-
spheres, depending on the fluid. Similarly, allowable pressures range from
the triple point of each substance to 300 degrees K to 2000 degrees K, de-
pending on the substance.

     The GASP package was developed to be used with heat transfer and fluid
flow applications. It is particularly useful in applications of cryogenic
fluids. Some problems associated with the liquefication, storage, and
gasification of liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas can also
be studied using GASP.

     This program is written in FORTRAN IV for batch execution and is avail-
able for implementation on IBM 7000 series computers. GASP was developed in
1971.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 7000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,183 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LEW-11629

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $17.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $34.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        1

