Abstracts for the NASA Engineering Source Code Programs

This information is also available in html format via the html 
interface.

====================

ROTORCRAFT ANALYSIS
Aeroelastic Analysis for Rotorcraft in Flight or in a Wind Tunnel

  arc-11150
  Size: 13,793 Statements
  Language: FORTRAN IV

  The testing of rotorcraft, either in flight or in a wind tunnel,
requires a consideration of the coupled aeroelastic stability of the
rotor and airframe, or the rotor and support system. Even if the
primary purpose of a test is to measure rotor performance, ignoring
the question of dynamic stability introduces the risk of catastrophic
failure of the aircraft. This computer program was developed to
incorporate an analytical model of the aeroelastic behavior of a wide
range of rotorcraft. Such an analytical model is desirable for both
pre-test predictions and post-test correlations. The program is also
applicable in investigations of isolated rotor aeroelasticity and
helicopter flight dynamics and could be employed as a basis for more
extensive investigations of aeroelastic behavior, such as automatic
control system design.


AIRCRAFT TRAJECTORIES
Optimal Aircraft Trajectories for Specified Range

  Program Label:  arc-11282
  Size:  2,583
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  For an aircraft operating over a fixed range, minimum fuel and
minimum time trajectories are relatively easy to calculate, but the
determination of a minimum cost trajectory can be a complex
undertaking. This computer program was developed to optimize
trajectories with respect to a cost function based on a weighted sum
of fuel cost and time cost. As a research tool, the program could be
used to study various characteristics of optimum trajectories and
their comparison to standard trajectories. It might also be used to
generate a model for the development of an airborne trajectory
optimization system. The program could be incorporated into an airline
flight planning system, with optimum flight plans determined at
takeoff time for the prevailing flight conditions. The use of
trajectory optimization could significantly reduce the cost for a
given aircraft mission.



GRAPE
Two-Dimensional Grids About Airfoils and Other Shapes by the Use of Poisson's Equation

  Program Label:  arc-11379
  Size:  3,616
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The GRAPE computer program was developed to incorporate a method for
generating two-dimensional finite-difference grids about airfoils and
other shapes by the use of the Poisson differential equation. GRAPE
can be used with any boundary shape, even one specified by tabulated
points and including a limited number of sharp corners. The GRAPE
program has been developed to be numerically stable and
computationally fast. GRAPE can provide the aerodynamic analyst with
an efficient and consistent means of grid generation.



VASCOMP II
V/STOL Aircraft Sizing and Performance

  Program Label:  arc-11433
  Size:  14,093
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The VASCOMP2 computer program was developed to aid in the
comparative design study of V/STOL aircraft which use fixed wing lift
for primary cruise flight.  It rapidly provides aircraft size and
mission performance data. VASCOMP2 can be used to define design
requirements such as weight breakdown, required propulsive power, and
physical dimensions of aircraft which are to meet specified mission
requirements. The program is also useful in sensitivity studies
involving both design trade-offs and performance trade-offs.  VASCOMP2
is capable of approximating the design process involved in the layout
and sizing of a wide variety of V/STOL aircraft and synthesizing the
performance of these aircraft.



MONITOR
Monte Carlo Investigation of Trajectory Operations and Requirements

  Program Label:  gsc-12705
  Size:  8,369
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The Monte Carlo Investigation of Trajectory Operations and
Requirements (MONITOR) program was developed to perform spacecraft
mission maneuver simulations for geosynchronous, single maneuver, and
comet encounter type trajectories. MONITOR is a multifaceted program
which enables the modeling of various orbital sequences and missions,
the generation of Monte Carlo simulation statistics, and the
parametric scanning of user requested variables over specified
intervals. The MONITOR program has been used primarily to study
geosynchronous missions and has the capability to model Space Shuttle
deployed satellite trajectories.



PILOT
Parameterized Investigation of Launch Opportunities and Trajectories

  Program Label:  gsc-12801
  Size:  9,199
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The launch window for an earth satellite mission defines the dates
and the times of day that a satellite can be launched and satisfy the
mission constraints. The Parameterized Investigation of Launch
Opportunities and Trajectories (PILOT) program was developed to
perform mission simulation computations that yield data for use in
delimiting optimum launch windows. The PILOT program performs
parametric scans of a user specified trajectory over launch date and
initital right ascension of the ascending node. During each scan
various mission parameters are generated and output to a data file.



FSD
Flexible Spacecraft Dynamics

  Program Label:  gsc-13006
  Size:  31,449
  Language:  FORTRAN 77 ( 99 %); PASCAL ( 01 %); ASSEMBLER ( 00

  The Flexible Spacecraft Dynamics and Control program (FSD) was
developed to aid in the simulation of a large class of flexible and
rigid spacecraft. FSD is extremely versatile and can be used in
attitude dynamics and control analysis as well as in-orbit support of
deployment and control of spacecraft. FSD has been used to analyze the
in-orbit attitude performance and antenna deployment of the RAE and
IMP class satellites, and the HAWKEYE, SCATHA, EXOS-B, and Dynamics
Explorer flight programs.



EGRAM
Echelle Spectrograph Design Aid

  Program Label:  gsc-13016
  Size:  794
  Language:  BASIC

  EGRAM aids in the design of spectrographic systems that utilize an
echelle-first order cross disperser combination. This optical
combination causes a two dimensional echellogram to fall on a
detector. EGRAM describes the echellogram with enough detail to allow
the user to effectively judge the feasibility of the spectrograph's
design. By iteratively altering system parameters, the desired
echellogram can be achieved without making a physical model. EGRAM
calculates system parameters which are accurate to the first order and
compare favorably to results from ray tracing techniques.



WING FLUTTER
Modified Strip Analysis Method for Predicting Wing Flutter at Subsonic to Hypersonic Speeds

  Program Label:  lar-10199
  Size:  1,714
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  A modified strip analysis has been developed for rapidly predicting
flutter of finite-span, swept or unswept wings at subsonic to
hypersonic speeds. The method employs distributions of aerodynamic
parameters which may be evaluated from any suitable linear or
nonlinear steady-flow theory or from measured steady-flow load
distributions for the underformed wing. The method has been shown to
give good flutter results for a broad range of wings at Mach number
from 0 to as high as 15.3.



MARS RELAY
Fast Mars Relay Communication Link

  Program Label:  lar-10658
  Size:  1,725
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program evaluates the communications link between the Viking
Orbiter and Lander vehicles. The program calculates the trajectory of
the Orbiter and Lander simultaneously. Using data from both vehicles,
this program calculates communication geometry.



MISLIFT
Aerodynamic Lift on Wing-Body Combinations at Small Angles of Attack in Supersonic Flow

  Program Label:  lar-10932
  Size:  638
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  Two separate and distinct theories are incorporated in this computer
program to estimate the lift-induced pressures existent on a wing-body
combination. These are (1) the second-order shock-expansion theory,
which is used to obtain the lifting pressures on the body alone at
small angles of attack, and (2) the linear-theory integral equations,
which is used to evaluate the lifting pressures induced by the wing.
Most of the input required by this program is involved with the
description of the missile planform geometry.  A force and moment
summary is presented for the configuration under consideration.



AEROELASTIC EFFECTS
University of Kansas Static Aeroelastic Program

  Program Label:  lar-11602
  Size:  2,865
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This software package contains three programs which compute
geometric, mass, aerodynamic, and structural characteristics of
fighter type aircraft. The programs were developed for computational
support of a parametric study of planform and aeroelastic effects on
aerodynamic center and stability derivatives. They calculate alpha-
and q- stability derivatives and induced drag for thin elastic
aeroplanes at subsonic and supersonic speeds. The programs are
applicable to studies of steady state aeroelastic effects on stability
characteristics of airplanes, but results are limited in validity to
wings of typical fighter airplanes with a weight of 40,000 pounds
(178,000 Newtons) and wing structures designed to withstand a limit
load of 7.33 g's.



AEROELASTIC DIVERGENCE
Aeroelastic Divergence Characteristics of Unguided, Slender Body, Multi-Stage Launch Vehicles

  Program Label:  lar-12004
  Size:  1,551
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The primary function of this computer program is the calculation of
the divergence dynamic pressure and associated divergence modal
characteristics of unguided, slender-body, multistage launch
vehicles. . The program also includes an option for calculating a
generalized static margin which approximates the degeneration in
rigid-body static margin due to aeroelasticity effects. Evaluated
equations are also programmed to allow for the exclusion of the effect
of aerodynamic crossflow resulting from vehicle angular velocities if
desired. Other physical and aerodynamic properties calculated include
total mass, center of mass, moments of inertia in pitch about the
reference station, total aerodynamic lift curve slope, static
aerodynamic center of pressure, rigid body static margin, and short
period frequency.



AIPP
Atmospheric Interaction Plume Program

  Program Label:  lar-12203
  Size:  5,950
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This computer program can be used to predict the gas dynamic and
chemical properties of underexpanded rocket plumes from sea level to
the altitude above which the viscous continuum flow assumption, with
distinct shocks, is no longer valid. The program computes the plume
shock structure while simultaneously accounting for turbulent mixing,
nonequilibrium chemistry, and gas/particle nonequilibrium effects. The
program also has the ability to calculate plume properties in the
subsonic region downstream from the Mach disc, downstream of the shock
reflected from the triple point, and in the far field. The program can
readily be used to determine plume optical and electrical properties,
which are necessary data for calculating the infrared radiation
pattern and radar cross section. This program was used to calculate
deposition rate of various nitrogen oxides into the stratosphere
caused by the Space Shuttle exhaust plumes.



NSEG
A Segmented Mission Analysis Program For Low and High Speed Aircraft

  Program Label:  lar-12299
  Size:  17,926
  Language:  FORTRAN IV ( 96 %); ASSEMBLER ( 04 %);

  NSEG was developed to perform rapid aircraft mission analyses. It is
based upon the use of approximate equations of motion whose form
varies with the type of flight segment. Flight segments considered are
takeoff, accelerations, climbs, cruises, descents, decelerations, and
landings. Layered atmosphere options are available. The program can
also be used for flight envelope mapping. NSEG provides the capability
to analyze aircraft missions from low to hypersonic speeds.



KERNEL FUNCTION METHOD
A Steady And Oscillatory Kernel Function Method For Interfering Surfaces In Subsonic, Transonic and Supersonic Flow

  Program Label:  lar-12524
  Size:  5,948
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This computer program was developed to provide an analysis method
based on a kernel function technique which uses assumed pressure
functions with unknown coefficients. With this technique, generalized
forces can be calculated in unsteady flow and pressure distributions
can be obtained in both steady and unsteady flow. Once the aerodynamic
matrices are computed and inverted, they may be saved and used on
subsequent problems at very little cost as long as Mach number,
reduced frequencies, and aerodynamic geometry remain unchanged. This
method should be very useful for design applications where the
structural mode shapes change continually due to structural changes
and payload variations but the aerodynamic parameters remain constant.



OPTIM
A Vertical Profile Which Minimizes Aircraft Fuel Burn or Direct Operating Cost

  Program Label:  lar-12940
  Size:  5,403
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The OPTIM computer program was developed to generate optimum
vertical profiles for turbojet powered aircraft. Specifically, OPTIM
generates a profile of altitude, airspeed, and flight path angle as a
function of range between a given set of origin and destination points
for particular models of transport aircraft. The profile may be
optimized in the sense of minimizing fuel or time or in minimizing the
direct operating cost expressed as a combination of fuel and
time. Inputs to the program include the vertical wind profile, the
aircraft takeoff weight, and the aircraft engine and aerodynamic
characteristics. The optimum vertical flight profile is generated by
calculating the airspeed and thrust required to minimize the
Hamiltonian at specific energy increments.



TRANSPORT AIRCRAFT ANALYSIS
Takeoff and Landing Performance Capabilities of Transport Category Aircraft

  Program Label:  lar-13086
  Size:  4,452
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  One of the most important considerations in the design of a
commercial transport aircraft is the aircraft's performance during
takeoff and landing operations. The aircraft must be designed to meet
field length constraints in accordance with airworthiness standards
specified in the Federal Aviation Regulations. In addition, the noise
levels generated during these operations must be within acceptable
limits. This computer program provides for the detailed analysis of
the takeoff and landing performance capabilities of transport category
aircraft. The program calculates aircraft performance in accordance
with the airworthiness standards of the Federal Aviation
Regulations. The aircraft and flight constraints are represented in
sufficient detail to permit realistic sensitivity studies in terms of
either configuration modifications or changes in operational
procedures.



 COREL & W12SC3
Two Programs for Supersonic Wing Design and Analysis

  Program Label:  lar-13239
  Size:  20,150
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  COREL and W12SC3 are two computer programs useful in the aerodynamic
design and analysis of wings for supersonic maneuvering. Both programs
use the Super Critical Conical Camber (SC3) concept, in which high
supersonic lift coefficients are obtained by controlling cross flow
development. COREL (Conical Relaxation) solves the nonlinear full
potential equation for a spanwise section of a wing in the crossflow
plane and corrects the result for any nonconical geometry. W12SC3
applies linear theory panel methods to compute solutions for a
wing-body configuration. The programs are not restricted to supersonic
maneuvering cases, but are useful for many design, analysis, and
optimization applications.



RATIONAL SPLINE ROUTINES
Rational Spline Subroutines for Adjustment of Tension Parameters

  Program Label:  lar-13694
  Size:  2,312
  Language:  FORTRAN V

  Scientific data often contains random errors that make plotting and
curve-fitting difficult. The Rational-Spline Approximation with
Automatic Tension Adjustment algorithm lead to a flexible, smooth
representation of experimental data. The user sets the conditions to
apply no tension; to apply fixed tension; or to determine tension with
a tension adjustment algorithm. The user also selects the number of
divisions (knots) in the data set, the knot abscissas, and the allowed
maximum deviations from line segments.  The subroutines use an
automatic adjustment scheme which frees the user from the drudgery of
adjusting individual tension parameters while still giving control
over the local behavior of the spline.



NOZZLE MATERIALS
Analytical Comparisons Of Ablative Nozzle Materials

  Program Label:  lew-00240
  Size:  7,360
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program is designed to analytically predict the ablation
performance of rocket nozzle heat protection materials. The program is
based on the use of nonsymmetrical difference equations that are
employed to solve systems of complex partial differential equations.
The program can be used to predict the thermal degradation of a wide
variety of materials exposed to an external source of heat.  The
program also includes the effects of mass addition on heat transfer,
the calculation of internal gas pressure and internal material
stresses, and a number of other options for surface or char removal.



TANDEM BLADE TURBOMACHINE
Velocities and Streamlines on a Blade-To-Blade Stream Surface of a Tandem Blade Turbomachine

  Program Label:  lew-10743
  Size:  2,536
  Language:  FORTRAN IV ( 99 %); ASSEMBLER ( 01 %);

  This computer program gives the blade-to-blade solution of the
two-dimensional, subsonic, compressible (or incompressible),
nonviscous flow problem for a circular or straight infinite cascade of
tandem or slotted turbomachine blades. The blades may be fixed or
rotating. The flow may be axial, radial , or mixed.  The program input
consists of the basic blade geometry, the meridional stream channel
coordinates, fluid stagnation conditions, weight flow and flow split
through the slot, and inlet and outlet flow angles. The output
includes blade surface velocities, velocity magnitude and direction
throughout the passage, and the streamline coordinates.



ROTOR BLADE DESIGN
Design of Two-Dimensional Supersonic Turbine Rotor Blades With Boundary-Layer Correction

  Program Label:  lew-11744
  Size:  2,011
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  A computer program has been developed for the design of supersonic
rotor blades where losses are accounted for by correcting the ideal
blade geometry for boundary layer displacement thickness. The computer
program input consists essentially of the rotor inlet and outlet Mach
numbers, upper- and lower-surface Mach numbers, inlet flow angle,
specific heat ratio, and total flow conditions. The program gas
properties are set up for air. Additional gases require changes to be
made to the program. The computer output consists of the corrected
rotor blade coordinates, the principal boundary-layer parameters, and
the aftermixing conditions.



FLUID
Thermodynamic and Transport Properties of Fluids

  Program Label:  lew-13127
  Size:  10,000
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The accurate computation of the thermodynamic and transport
properties of fluids is a necessity for many engineering
calculations. The FLUID program was developed to calculate the
thermodynamic and transport properties of pure fluids in both the
liquid and gas phases. Fluid properties are calculated using a simple
gas model, empirical corrections, and an efficient numerical
interpolation scheme. FLUID produces results that are in very good
agreement with measured values, while being much faster than older
more complex programs developed for the same purpose.



CAS2D
Nonrotating Blade-To-Blade, Steady, Potential Transonic Cascade Flow Analysis Code

  Program Label:  lew-13854
  Size:  1,786
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  An exact, full-potential-equation model for the steady,
irrotational, homoentropic, and homoenergetic flow of a compressible,
inviscid fluid through a two-dimensional planar cascade together with
its appropriate boundary conditions has been derived. The CAS2D
computer program numerically solves an artificially time-dependent
form of the actual full-potential equation, providing a nonrotating
blade-to-blade, steady, potential transonic cascade flow analysis
code.



MISER2
Mistuning Effects on Turbofan Cascades

  Program Label:  lew-14380
  Size:  2,623
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The study of stability and response in bladed-disk assemblies is
complicated by the presence of small differences between the
individual blades, known as mistuning. The Mistuning Effects on
Turbofan Cascades program, MISER2, was developed to improve the basic
understanding of the effects of mistuning on aeroelastic stability and
response.  The MISER2 program calculates the flutter boundaries and
aeroelastic response of a cascade of arbitrarily mistuned airfoils.
Each blade is modeled as a two degree-of-freedom oscillator having
inertial coupling between the bending and torsional motions. It is
possible to consider any type of uncoupled bending and torsional
frequencies, damping ratios, mass ratios, and elastic axis and center
of gravity positions. Special cases which can be treated by MISER2
include: tuned and mistuned cases; uncoupled bending and uncoupled
torsion cases; and the tuned coupled bending-torsion case.



FLUID
Thermodynamic and Transport Properties of Fluids

  Program Label:  lew-14418
  Size:  10,000
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The accurate computation of the thermodynamic and transport
properties of fluids is a necessity for many engineering
calculations. The FLUID program was developed to calculate the
thermodynamic and transport properties of pure fluids in both the
liquid and gas phases. Fluid properties are calculated using a simple
gas model, empirical corrections, and an efficient numerical
interpolation scheme. FLUID produces results that are in very good
agreement with measured values, while being much faster than older
more complex programs developed for the same purpose.



SSSP
Space Shuttle Synthesis Program

  Program Label:  msc-13914
  Size:  7,810
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The Space Shuttle Synthesis Program (SSSP) automates the trajectory,
weights and performance computations essential to predesign of the
Space Shuttle system for earth-to-orbit operations. The two-stage
Space Shuttle system is a completely reusable space transportation
system consisting of a booster and an orbiter element. The SSSP'S
major parts are a detailed weight/volume routine, a precision
three-dimensional trajectory simulation, and the iteration and
synthesis logic necessary to satisfy the hardware and trajectory
constraints.



COLDARC
Dissociated Air Flow Effects During Plasma Arc Testing

  Program Label:  msc-20522
  Size:  1,086
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The COLDARC program was developed as part of an effort to predict
the heating rate and surface friction effects on the Thermal
Protection System of the Space Shuttle Orbiter during re-entry
environments. COLDARC enables the user to predict the heating rate and
surface friction on a test article during plasma arc testing. This
program takes into account the effects of dissociated air flow over
the specimen and the associated heat flux and surface
temperatures. COLDARC uses a simplified frozen flow model to represent
the dissociated air flow and to predict the heat flux and surface
friction, including the effects of retarded atomic recombination, from
test facility data.



ARIES
Aircraft Rollout Iterative Energy Simulation

  Program Label:  msc-20816
  Size:  2,291
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The ARIES program analyzes aircraft brake performance during
rollout. The program simulates a three degree of freedom rollout after
nose gear touchdown. The amount of brake energy dissipated during
landing determines the life expectancy of brake pads. ARIES
incorporates brake pressure, actual flight data, crosswinds, and
runway characteristics to calculate the following: 1) brake energy
used during rollout for up to four independent brake systems, 2) time
profiles of rollout distance, velocity, deceleration, and lateral
runway position, and 3) all aerodynamic moments on the vehicle. ARIES
can be adapted for modelling most landing aircraft during unpowered
rollout. Optimum braking procedures can be developed with ARIES to
minimize brake deterioration while staying within specified lengths of
runway. ARIES has been used to evaluate several Shuttle Orbiter brake
pad failures.



NEQHTCAT
Laminar Nonequilibrium Aeroheating

  Program Label:  msc-20996
  Size:  837
  Language:  FORTRAN V

  The Laminar Nonequilibrium Heating program (NEQHTCAT) is used to
predict the nonequilibrium heating on the surface of a partially
catalytic flat plate moving at supersonic speed through the
atmosphere. NEQHTCAT has been used to analyze the aeroheating effects
on the Shuttle Orbiter for various re-entry trajectories. The program
calculates thermodynamic properties and equilibrium edge properties
and converts these, where required, to a frozen boundary layer
condition.



VASP
Variable Dimension Automatic Synthesis Program 

  Program Label:  arc-10616
  Size:  2,040
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  VASP is a variable dimension Fortran version of the Automatic
Synthesis Program, ASP. The program is used to implement Kalman
filtering and control theory. Basically, it consists of 31 subprograms
for solving most modern control problems in linear, time-variant (or
time-invariant) control systems. These subprograms include operations
of matrix algebra, computation of the exponential of a matrix and its
convolution integral, and the solution of the matrix Riccati
equation. The user calls these subprograms by means of a FORTRAN main
program, and so can easily obtain solutions to most general problems
of extremization of a quadratic functional of the state of the linear
dynamical system. Particularly, these problems include the synthesis
of the Kalman filter gains and the optimal feedback gains for
minimization of a quadratic performance index.



CONTOUR PLOTS
A General Algorithm for the Construction of Contour Plots

  Program Label:  arc-11441
  Size:  1,161
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  A general computer algorithm has been developed for the construction
of contour plots. The algorithm provides for efficient and accurate
contouring with a modular approach which allows flexibility in
modifying the algorithm for special applications. The algorithm
accepts as input data values at a set of points irregularly
distributed over a plane. The algorithm is based on an interpolation
scheme in which the points in the plane are connected by straight line
segments to form a set of triangles. In general, the data is smoothed
using a least-squares-error fit of the data to a bivariate
polynomial. To construct the contours, interpolation along the edges
of the triangles is performed, using the bivariable polynomial if data
smoothing was performed. Once the contour points have been located,
the contour may be drawn.



GENOPTICS
A General Optical Systems Evaluation Program

  Program Label:  gsc-12439
  Size:  4,590
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The General Optical Systems Evaluation Program, GENOPTICS, was
developed as an aid for the analysis and evaluation of optical systems
that employ lenses, mirrors, diffraction gratings, and other
geometrical surfaces. The GENOPTICS evaluation is performed by means
of geometrical ray tracing based upon Snell's law. The GENOPTICS
program can provide for the exact ray tracing of as many as 800 rays
through as many as 40 surfaces. These surfaces may be planar, conic,
toric, or polynomial shaped lenses, mirrors, and diffraction
gratings. Each surface may be tilted about as many as three axes and
may be decentered. Surfaces having bilateral symmetry may also be
analyzed. GENOPTICS provides for user-oriented input and for a wide
range of output for the evaluation of the optical system being
analyzed. 



GENOPTICS
A General Optical Systems Evaluation Program

  Program Label:  gsc-12823
  Size:  4,590
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The General Optical Systems Evaluation Program, GENOPTICS, was
developed as an aid for the analysis and evaluation of optical systems
that employ lenses, mirrors, diffraction gratings, and other
geometrical surfaces. The GENOPTICS evaluation is performed by means
of geometrical ray tracing based upon Snell's law. The GENOPTICS
program can provide for the exact ray tracing of as many as 800 rays
through as many as 40 surfaces. These surfaces may be planar, conic,
toric, or polynomial shaped lenses, mirrors, and diffraction
gratings. Each surface may be tilted about as many as three axes and
may be decentered. Surfaces having bilateral symmetry may also be
analyzed. GENOPTICS provides for user-oriented input and for a wide
range of output for the evaluation of the optical system being
analyzed.



NASTRAN NASTPLT 
Plotting Post Processor

  Program Label:  gsc-12833
  Size:  1,000
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The NASTRAN NASTPLT Plotting Post Processor was developed to read
NASTRAN generated NASTPLT plot files, to check the file contents for
validity, and to translate the NASTPLT plot commands into appropriate
calls to plotting routines for either CalComp, Tektronix PLOT10, or
Versatec plotting systems. This program was originally written to
generate a summary of the contents of a NASTPLT plot file (plot
number, draw-lines summary, draw-axis summary, drawcharacter summary,
maximum and minimum values in the x-range and y-range, pen change
information, number of records read, the number of commands, and the
number of plots) for the purposes of debugging and checking the
validity and characteristics of the file contents.



ORACLS
Optimal Regulator Algorithms for the Control of Linear Systems

  Program Label:  gsc-13067
  Size:  6,200
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This control theory design package, called Optimal Regulator
Algorithms for the Control of Linear Systems (ORACLS), was developed
to aid in the design of controllers and optimal filters for systems
which can be modeled by linear, time-invariant differential and
difference equations.  A variety of new and efficient methods in the
field of numerical linear algebra have been combined into the ORACLS
program, which provides for the solution to time-invariant continuous
or discrete LQG problems. The ORACLS package is particularly
attractive to the control system designer because it provides a
rigorous tool for dealing with multi-input and multi-output dynamic
systems in both continuous and discrete form.



CIRCUIT ANALYSIS
Sneak Circuit Analysis for Locating Wire Segments on Schematic Drawings

  Program Label:  hqn-10517
  Size:  9,151
  Language:  COBOL

  The automated sneak circuit analysis is accomplished in three
processing phases: (1) the data reduction phase in which the "wire
list" generated from the schematic of the circuit is reduced to an
ISAM file containing a branch cross-reference table (2) the path
derivation phase which uses the data in the branch cross-reference
table to examine all possible paths to see which meet the above
mentioned two-fold criteria for a possible sneak circuit and (3) the
path regeneration phase in which the paths flagged are listed in
branch sequence number and then in to-from connector sequence. The
output report generated is in a highly usable format that allows the
engineer to verify the suspected sneak circuit path by locating the
wire segments on the circuit schematic drawings.



DIGITAL CONTOURING
Generalized Digital Contouring Program

  Program Label:  lar-10872
  Size:  3,529
  Language:  FORTRAN IV ( 83 %); ASSEMBLER ( 17 %);

  This is a digital computer contouring program developed by combining
desirable characteristics from several existing contouring
programs. It can easily be adapted to many different research
requirements. The overlaid structure of the program permits desired
modifications to be made with ease.  The contouring program performs
both the task of generating a depth matrix from either randomly or
regularly spaced surface heights and the task of contouring the data.
Any set of data which can be referenced to a two-dimensional
coordinate system can be graphically represented by this program.



TRANSIENT RESPONSE
Transient Response of Ablating Axisymmetric Bodies Including the Effects of Shape Change

  Program Label:  lar-11049
  Size:  1,679
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

   A computer program has been developed to analyze the transient
response of an ablating axisymmetric body, including the effect of
shape change. The governing differential equation, the boundary
conditions for the analysis on which the computer program is based,
and the method of solution of the resulting finite-difference
equations are discussed in the documentation.



TRANSIENT THERMAL RESPONSE
One-Dimensional Numerical Analysis of the Transient Thermal Response of Multilayer Insulative Systems

  Program Label:  lar-12057
  Size:  500
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program performs a one-dimensional numerical analysis of the
transient thermal response of multi-layer insulative systems. The
analysis can determine the temperature distribution through a system
consisting of from one to four layers, one of which can be an air
gap. Concentrated heat sinks at any interface can be included. The
computer program based on the analysis will determine the thickness of
a specified layer that will satisfy a temperature limit criterion at
any point in the insulative system. The program will also
automatically calculate the thickness at several points on a system
and determine the total system mass. This program was developed as a
tool for designing thermal protection systems for highspeed aerospace
vehicles but could be adapted to many areas of industry involved in
thermal insulation systems.



ORACLS
Optimal Regulator Algorithms for the Control of Linear Systems

  Program Label:  lar-12313
  Size:  6,200
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This control theory design package, called Optimal Regulator
Algorithms for the Control of Linear Systems (ORACLS), was developed
to aid in the design of controllers and optimal filters for systems
which can be modeled by linear, time-invariant differential and
difference equations.  A variety of new and efficient methods in the
field of numerical linear algebra have been combined into the ORACLS
program, which provides for the solution to time-invariant continuous
or discrete LQG problems. The ORACLS package is particularly
attractive to the control system designer because it provides a
rigorous tool for dealing with multi-input and multi-output dynamic
systems in both continuous and discrete form.n



TRANSIENT DIFFUSION
Numerical Analyses For Treating Diffusion In Single-, Two-, and Three-Phase Binary Alloy Systems

  Program Label:  lar-12381
  Size:  1,450
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This package consists of a series of three computer programs for
treating one-dimensional transient diffusion problems in single and
multiple phase binary alloy systems.  The finite-difference solutions
developed for this package are applicable for planar, cylindrical, and
spherical geometries with any diffusion-zone size and any continuous
variation of the diffusion coefficient with concentration. Special
techniques were included to account for differences in modal volumes,
initiation and growth of an intermediate phase, disappearance of a
phase, and the presence of an initial composition profile in the
specimen. In each analysis, an effort was made to achieve good
accuracy while minimizing computation time.



ORACLS
Optimal Regulator Algorithms for the Control of Linear Systems

  Program Label:  lar-12953
  Size:  6,200
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This control theory design package, called Optimal Regulator
Algorithms for the Control of Linear Systems (ORACLS), was developed
to aid in the design of controllers and optimal filters for systems
which can be modeled by linear, time-invariant differential and
difference equations.  A variety of new and efficient methods in the
field of numerical linear algebra have been combined into the ORACLS
program, which provides for the solution to time-invariant continuous
or discrete LQG problems. The ORACLS package is particularly
attractive to the control system designer because it provides a
rigorous tool for dealing with multi-input and multi-output dynamic
systems in both continuous and discrete form.



SOPAD
Separation of Overlapping Peaks and Analysis of Derivatives

  Program Label:  lar-13276
  Size:  995
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  SOPAD was developed for performing the separation of overlapping
peaks and the analysis of derivatives of x-ray diffraction data. In
qualitative and quantitative x-ray diffraction problems, overlapping
profiles introduce difficulties that prevent an accurate determination
of both peak positions and the areas of the diffraction peaks. This
problem is prevalent in complex multi-element alloys and in certain
metal matrix composites because of the large number of phases
present. SOPAD helps the analyst to get the most information out of
the available diffraction data.



PLOT3D
Drawing Three Dimensional Surfaces

  Program Label:  lew-10482
  Size:  355
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  PLOT3D is a package of programs to draw three-dimensional surfaces
of the form z = f(x,y). The function f and the boundary values for x
and y are the input to PLOT3D. The surface thus defined may be drawn
after arbitrary rotations.  However, it is designed to draw only
functions in rectangular coordinates expressed explicitly in the above
form. It cannot, for example, draw a sphere. Output is by off-line
incremental plotter or online microfilm recorder. This package, unlike
other packages, will plot any function of the form z = f(x,y) and
portrays continuous and bounded functions of two independent
variables. With curve fitting, however, it can draw experimental data
and pictures which cannot be expressed in the above form.



GRID3O
Fast Generation of Multilevel Three-Dimensional Boundary-Conforming O-Type Computational Grids

  Program Label:  lew-13818
  Size:  1,346
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The GRID30 computer program incorporates a fast algorithm for
accurately generating boundary-conforming, three-dimensional
consecutively refined computational grids applicable to arbitrary
wing-body and axial turbomachinery geometries.  The method is based on
using an analytic function to generate two-dimensional grids on a
number of coaxial axisymmetric surfaces positioned between the
centerbody and the outer radial boundary. These grids are of the
O-type and are characterized by quasiorthogonality, geometric
periodicity, and an adequate resolution throughout the flow
field. Because the built-in nonorthogonal coordinate stretching and
shearing cause the grid lines leaving the blade or wing trailingedge
to end at downstream infinity, use of the generated grid simplifies
the numerical treatment of three-dimensional trailing vortex sheets.



ANDUCT
Velocity Gradient Method for Calculating Velocities in an Axisym-Metric Annular Duct

  Program Label:  lew-14000
  Size:  539
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  Turbomachinery components are often connected by ducts, which are
usually annular. The configurations and aerodynamic characteristics of
these ducts are crucial to the optimum performance of the
turbomachinery blade rows. The ANDUCT computer program was developed
to calculate the velocity distribution along an arbitrary line between
the inner and outer walls of an annular duct with axisymmetric
swirling flow. Although other programs are available for duct
analysis, the use of the velocity gradient method makes the ANDUCT
program fast and convenient while requiring only modest computer
resources.



IMAGE PROCESSING ROUTINES
Evaluation of Registration, Compression and Classification Algorithms

  Program Label:  mfs-25367
  Size:  8,715
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This collection of registration, compression, and classification
algorithms was developed so that different approaches could be
evaluated and the best approach for a particular application
determined. Routines are included for six registration algorithms, six
compression algorithms, and two classification algorithms. The package
also includes routines for evaluating the effects of processing on the
image data. This collection of routines should be useful to anyone
using or developing image processing software.



COMPSIZE
Preliminary Design Method for Fiber Reinforced Composite Structures

  Program Label:  mfs-27153
  Size:  2,038
  Language:  BASIC

  The Composite Structure Preliminary Sizing program, COMPSIZE, is an
analytical tool which structural designers can use when doing
approximate stress analysis to select or verify preliminary sizing
choices for composite structural members. It is useful in the
beginning stages of design concept definition, when it is helpful to
have quick and convenient approximate stress analysis tools available
so that a wide variety of structural configurations can be sketched
out and checked for feasibility. The emphasis is on fast,
user-friendly methods so that rough but technically sound evaluation
of a broad variety of conceptual designs can be accomplished.



SCAT
System Commonality Analysis Tool

  Program Label:  mfs-28207
  Size:  8,427
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The System Commonality Analysis Tool, SCAT, was designed to aid
managers and engineers in identifying common, potentially common, and
unique components of a system. Commonality lowers overall system cost
through use of the smallest variety of items or subsystem types in the
greatest number of applications. SCAT, through utilization of a
comprehensive parts database, determines cost effectiveness by
comparing life cycle costs of unique part configurations and standard
part configurations. The SCAT database reflects both engineering and
financial data. SCAT was instituted as a commonality analysis for the
Space Station, but is easily applicable to other projects such as
software commonality, which is used as an example in the detailed
documentation.



SOLAR ARRAY
Orbiting Solar Array Simulation Model

  Program Label:  msc-18558
  Size:  717
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  Solar arrays are becoming an increasingly important means of
generating power for earth orbiting spacecraft. Currently, almost all
unmanned earth satellites utilize solar array electrical power
generation systems. Applications for solar arrays in the near future
include providing power for space shuttle payloads and manned space
stations. This computer program was developed to simulate the
capabilities of earth orbiting arrays. The model used is based on an
improved version of a finite-element radiation shape factor
subprogram. The inherent simplicity and speed of the original
subprogram has been augmented with an improved shadow evaluation
technique to provide the user with an efficient array model.



DIGITAL FILTER DESIGN
Compare Digital Filters by Minimizing Sum Square Error

  Program Label:  msc-20982
  Size:  1,336
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The Digital Filter Design program presents a method to compare
desired and designed digital filters by minimizing the
sum-square-error of the differences in magnitude and phase
angles. Most filter design techniques emphasize magnitude
characteristics. Such techniques are adequate for control systems
where the phase angle of a filter imposes minor effects on system
stability. However, for closed loop feedback control systems, an
excessive phase angle of a designed filter may create signal
distortion or push the system to instability. This Digital Filter
Design program has been applied to the Space Shuttle pitch body
bending filter, where the filter was reshaped to provide more
attenuation to flexible vehicle resonance modes without sacrificing
the rigid vehicle performance.



VMACO
Variable Metric Algorithm for Constrained Optimization

  Program Label:  msc-21275
  Size:  5,697
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  VMACO, the Variable Metric Algorithm for Constrained Optimization,
is a non-linear program developed to calculate the least value of a
function of n variables subject to general constraints (both equality
and inequality). Generally, the first set of constraints is an
equality (the target)and the remaining constraints are inequalities
(boundaries). The VMACO program utilizes an iterative method in
seeking the optimal solution. It can be "hooked" into a driver program
(examples are provided) which can calculate the values for the real
function, constraints, and their first order partials with respect to
the controls.



IPEG
Improved Price Estimation Guidelines

  Program Label:  npo-15569
  Size:  2,363
  Language:  PASCAL

  The Improved Price Estimation Guidelines, IPEG, program provides a
simple yet accurate estimate of the price of a manufactured
product. IPEG facilitates sensitivity studies of price estimates at
considerably less expense than would be incurred by using the Standard
Assembly-line Manufacturing Industry Simulation, SAMIS, program
(COSMIC program NPO-16032). A difference of less than one percent
between the IPEG and SAMIS price estimates has been observed with
realistic test cases. However, the IPEG simplification of SAMIS allows
the analyst with limited time and computing resources to perform a
greater number of sensitivity studies than with SAMIS. Although IPEG
was developed for the photovoltaics industry, it is readily adaptable
to any standard assembly line type of manufacturing industry.



LCP
Lifetime Cost and Performance Model for Distributed Photovoltaic Systems

  Program Label:  npo-16001
  Size:  5,852
  Language:  SIMSCRIPT

  The Lifetime Cost and Performance (LCP) Model was developed to
assist in the assessment of Photovoltaic (PV) system design
options. LCP is a simulation of the performance, cost, and revenue
streams associated with distributed PV power systems. LCP provides the
user with substantial flexibility in specifying the technical and
economic environment of the PV application. User-specified input
parameters are available to describe PV system characteristics, site
climatic conditions, utility purchase and sellback rate structures,
discount and escalation rates, construction timing, and lifetime of
the system.  In combination with a suitable economic model, LCP can
provide an estimate of the expected net present worth of a PV system
to the owner, as compared to electricity purchased from a utility
grid. Similarly, LCP might be used to perform sensitivity analyses to
identify those PV system parameters having significant impact on net
worth.



IPEG
Improved Price Estimation Guidelines

  Program Label:  npo-16583
  Size:  2,363
  Language:  PASCAL

  The Improved Price Estimation Guidelines, IPEG, program provides a
simple yet accurate estimate of the price of a manufactured
product. IPEG facilitates sensitivity studies of price estimates at
considerably less expense than would be incurred by using the Standard
Assembly-line Manufacturing Industry Simulation, SAMIS, program
(COSMIC program NPO-16032). A difference of less than one percent
between the IPEG and SAMIS price estimates has been observed with
realistic test cases. However, the IPEG simplification of SAMIS allows
the analyst with limited time and computing resources to perform a
greater number of sensitivity studies than with SAMIS. Although IPEG
was developed for the photovoltaics industry, it is readily adaptable
to any standard assembly line type of manufacturing industry.



SERVICES FINANCIAL REPORT
Lmss Services Financial Report Program for Comparing Alternative Designs

  Program Label:  npo-16606
  Size:  1,000
  Language:  MULTIPLAN

  The objective of this Services Finance Report program is to provide
a means for comparing alternative designs of LMSS systems or other
services systems. This program is actually a Multiplan worksheet. The
labels used in the worksheet were chosen for a satellite-based
cellular communication service (LMSS - Land Mobile Satellite System)
but the analysis is not restricted to such cases. A comprehensive
financial model is used to calculate a 'figure of merit' which can be
used to compare effects of equipment and operating costs, pricing
strategy, and customer demand for different systems. The program also
calculates the price that a company would have to charge customers to
meet all its expenses and make a specified profit. A price estimate
can be obtained for almost any service which is heavily dependent on
capital investment and which has operating costs that depend on the
amount of service sold.



ORBSIM
Estimating Geophysical Model Parameters From Planetary Gravity

  Program Label:  npo-16671
  Size:  6,972
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The ORBSIM program was developed for the accurate extraction of
geophysical model parameters from Doppler radio tracking data acquired
from orbiting planetary spacecraft. The model of the proposed
planetary structure is used in a numerical integration of the
spacecraft along simulated trajectories around the primary body. Using
line of sight (LOS) Doppler residuals, ORBSIM applies fast and
efficient modelling and optimization procedures which avoid the
traditional complex dynamic reduction of data. ORBSIM produces
quantitative geophysical results such as size, depth, and mass. ORBSIM
has been used extensively to investigate topographic features on the
Moon, Mars, and Venus. The program has proven particulary suitable for
modelling gravitational anomalies and mascons.



OPTICAL LENS REFORMATTER
Optical Lens Prescription Data Reformatter

  Program Label:  npo-17093
  Size:  3,814
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The Optical Lens Prescription Data Formatter allows the user to
quickly and easily transfer complicated optical lens prescriptions
from one major optical design program to another and back again. Thus
one may take advantage of the inherent strengths of either
program. The programs are ACCOS V from Scientific Calculations,
Inc. of Fishers, NY, and CODE V from Optical Research Associates of
Pasadena, CA.



SPAM
Spectral Analysis Manager

  Program Label:  npo-17180
  Size:  11,700
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The Spectral Analysis Manager (SPAM) was developed to allow easy
qualitative analysis of multi-dimensional imaging spectrometer
data. Imaging spectrometers provide sufficient spectral sampling to
define unique spectral signatures on a per pixel basis. Thus direct
material identification becomes possible for geologic studies. SPAM
provides a variety of capabilities for carrying out interactive
analysis of the massive and complex datasets associated with
multispectral remote sensing observations. In addition to normal image
processing functions, SPAM provides multiple levels of on-line help, a
flexible command interpretation, graceful error recovery, and a
program structure which can be implemented in a variety of
environments. SPAM was designed to be visually oriented and user
friendly with the liberal employment of graphics for rapid and
efficient exploratory analysis of imaging spectrometry data.



SPAM
Spectral Analysis Manager

  Program Label:  npo-17182
  Size:  11,700
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The Spectral Analysis Manager (SPAM) was developed to allow easy
qualitative analysis of multi-dimensional imaging spectrometer
data. Imaging spectrometers provide sufficient spectral sampling to
define unique spectral signatures on a per pixel basis. Thus direct
material identification becomes possible for geologic studies. SPAM
provides a variety of capabilities for carrying out interactive
analysis of the massive and complex datasets associated with
multispectral remote sensing observations. In addition to normal image
processing functions, SPAM provides multiple levels of on-line help, a
flexible command interpretation, graceful error recovery, and a
program structure which can be implemented in a variety of
environments. SPAM was designed to be visually oriented and user
friendly with the liberal employment of graphics for rapid and
efficient exploratory analysis of imaging spectrometry data.



FPT
Fortran Programming Tools for the DEC VAX

  Program Label:  arc-11676
  Size:  23,970
  Language:  FORTRAN 77 ( 100 %); ASSEMBLER ( 00 %);

  The FORTRAN Programming Tools (FPT) are a series of tools used to
support the development and maintenance of FORTRAN 77 source
codes. Included are a debugging aid, a CPU time monitoring program,
source code maintenance aids, print utilities, and a library of
useful, well-documented programs. These tools assist in reducing
development time and encouraging high quality programming. Although
intended primarily for FORTRAN programmers, some of the tools can be
used on data files and other programming languages.



IBASE
A General Purpose Imagery Database System

  Program Label:  arc-11712
  Size:  14,838
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The Image Database program, IBASE, is a general purpose imagery
information system. The system includes functions for cataloging and
managing digital imagery files, and for conducting analyses of these
images. Use of the system may be accomplished either by commands or
through a hierarchy of menus. The analytical capabilities of IBASE
include contingency tables, image filtering (low-, high-, and
bandpass), proximity maps, clustering, histograms, regression, slope
calculations, scaling, and Boolean manipulations.  



PITEST
Multiple Precision Arithmetic

  Program Label:  arc-11725
  Size:  4,870
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The PITEST program is a package of subroutines that perform
arithmetic on floating-point numbers of arbitrarily high
precision. PITEST can also work on very large integers by treating
them as floating-point numbers with enough precision to exactly
represent their integral values.  PITEST calculates the value of pi to
several billion digits (although the program as delivered will
calculate only 25,000 digits) using the Borwein quadratically
convergent algorithm of 1983 and the quartically convergent algorithm
obtained in 1985.  This package also contains subroutines to perform
multiplication, division, and square root extraction using
sophisticated techniques such as fast Fourier Transforms. This package
includes single and double precision versions of all subroutines.



GREMEX
Goddard Research and Engineering Management Exercise Simulation System

  Program Label:  gsc-11512
  Size:  4,846
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The GREMEX computer programs are basically a program evaluation and
review technique (PERT) reporting system. In the usual PERT program,
the operator inputs each month the amount of work performed on each
activity and the computer does the bookkeeping to determine the
expected completion date of the project. GREMEX automatically assumes
that all activities due to be worked in the current month will be
worked. GREMEX predicts new durations (and costs) each month based on
management actions taken by the players and the contractor's
abilities.  The ability to re-estimate future events based on
management decisions or other factors and assign probability factors
provides life to the model.



TRAJEC
Numerical Tracing of Electron Trajectories

  Program Label:  gsc-12535
  Size:  865
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The TRAJEC computer program was developed as a tool to aid in the
analysis and design of various electron imaging systems. TRAJEC can
integrate the path of a relativistic electron through a region of
non-uniform, static electromagnetic fields to an accuracy of one
micrometer in ten centimeters.  The program is designed to easily
interface with various forms of user defined electric potentials and
magnetic fields. TRAJEC may be implemented interactively so that the
analyst might freely experiment with combinations of trajectories,
thereby gaining insight into the aberrations inherent in the imaging
system under study.  Lines of electrons may be studied to test system
linear imaging properties. TRAJEC also allows for studies of Monte
Carlo point sources of electrons to simulate the characteristic
emissive properties of photo-cathode materials and their effect on the
images produced.



NBOD2
Program to Derive and Solve Equations of Motion for Coupled N-Body Systems

  Program Label:  gsc-12846
  Size:  9,965
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The NBOD2 computer program was developed to aid in the analysis of
spacecraft attitude dynamics. NBOD2 is a very general program that may
be applied to a large class of problems involving coupled N-body
systems. NBOD2 provides the dynamics analyst with the capability to
automatically derive and numerically solve the equations of motion for
any system that can be modeled as a topological tree of coupled rigid
bodies, flexible bodies, point masses, and symmetrical momentum
wheels.



OAP
Office Automation Pilot Graphics Database System

  Program Label:  gsc-12925
  Size:  31,200
  Language:  PASCAL ( 99 %); ASSEMBLER ( 01 %);

  The Office Automation Pilot (OAP) Graphics Database system offers
the IBM PC user assistance in producing a wide variety of graphs and
charts. OAP uses a convenient database system, called a chartbase, for
creating and maintaining data associated with the charts, and twelve
different graphics packages are available to the OAP user.  Various
"help" functions and on-screen instructions are available to aid the
user. The user data is used to generate the graphics portion of the
chart. Completed charts may be displayed in monotone or color,
printed, plotted, or stored in the chartbase on the IBM PC. Once
completed, the charts may be put in a vector format and plotted for
color viewgraphs.



INCA
Interactive Controls Analysis

  Program Label:  gsc-12998
  Size:  26,701
  Language:  PASCAL ( 94 %); FORTRAN 77 ( 06 %);

  The Interactive Controls Analysis (INCA) program was developed to
provide a user friendly environment for the design and analysis of
linear control systems, primarily feedback control systems. INCA is
designed for use with both small and large order systems. Using the
interactive graphics capability, the INCA user can quickly plot a root
locus, frequency response, or time response of either a continuous
time system or a sampled data system. The system configuration and
parameters can be easily changed, allowing the INCA user to design
compensation networks and perform sensitivity analysis in a very
convenient manner. A journal file capability is included. This stores
an entire sequence of commands, generated during an INCA session into
a file which can be accessed later. Also included in INCA are a
context-sensitive help library, a screen editor, and plot
windows. INCA is robust to VAX-specific overflow problems.



SOAR
Software for Optical Archive and Retrieval

  Program Label:  gsc-13121
  Size:  4,303
  Language:  ASSEMBLER ( 67 %); FORTRAN 77 ( 22 %); DEC VAX DCL

  Software for Optical Archive and Retrieval, SOAR, is an interface
between the VAX computer's VMS operating system and a WORM optical
disk drive. The Write-Once-Read-Many optical disk technology (WORM)
does not permit the overwriting of files. SOAR creates a seamless user
interface for this new device, allowing the user to write data files
using commands very similar to the ones already used in VMS. The
optical disk can be read using the standard VMS commands for file
access. SOAR maintains a directory list on the magnetic drive until
the optical disk is filled with data, then permanently writes this
directory list to the optical disk.



OWL-1200
Video Terminal Emulator for the IBM Personal Computer

  Program Label:  ksc-11293
  Size:  1,000
  Language:  PASCAL ( 80 %); ASSEMBLER ( 20 %);

  An OWL-1200 video terminal emulator has been written for the IBM
Personal Computer. The OWL-1200 is a simple user terminal with some
intelligent capabilities. These capabilities include screen formatting
and block transmission of data. Several programs, such as Systonetics'
VIS1ON software for hierarchial scheduling, require this type of
terminal. The emulator software provides the IBM Personal Computer
with all of the capabilities of the OWL-1200 terminal. Even those
features which are implemented in hardware on the OWL-1200 are fully
provided by the emulator software.



FLOWCHARTER
A Universal Structured Design Diagrammer

  Program Label:  lar-12548
  Size:  11,159
  Language:  PASCAL

  The Universal Structured Design Diagrammer (FLOWCHARTER) was
developed as a tool for documenting and understanding computer
programs. FLOWCHARTER is termed universal because it can produce
flowcharts and concordances for any program written in virtually any
language. FLOWCHARTER is termed a structured design diagrammmer
because the generated flowcharts are presented in a concise tree-like
format appropriate for representing the flow of control in a
structured program. FLOWCHARTER can be used to provide standardized
documentation for any type of finished program. It can also be used in
the development and debugging phase to clearly exhibit the structure
of a program.



AESOP
An Expert System Engine With Operative Probabilities

  Program Label:  lar-13382
  Size:  675
  Language:  LISP

  AESOP is a rule-based inference engine for an expert system, which
makes decisions about a particular situation given user-supplied
hypotheses, rules, and answers to questions drawn from the rules. If a
knowledge base containing the hypotheses and rules governing an
environment is available to AESOP, almost any situation within that
environment can be resolved by answering the questions asked by
AESOP. The questions can be answered with YES, NO, MAYBE, DON'T KNOW,
DON'T CARE, or with a probability factor ranging from zero to ten.
The initial prompt asks what task is under consideration, and AESOP
asks questions about feasibility and performance until one of the
original hypotheses is confirmed.



CARE3MENU
A Care III User Friendly Interface

  Program Label:  lar-13514
  Size:  8,742
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  CARE3MENU generates an input file for the CARE III program. CARE III
is used for reliability prediction of complex, redundant,
fault-tolerant systems including digital computers, aircraft, nuclear
and chemical control systems. The CARE III input file often becomes
complicated and is not easily formatted with a text editor. CARE3MENU
provides an easy, interactive method of creating an input file by
automatically formatting a set of user-supplied inputs for the CARE
III system. CARE3MENU provides detailed on-line help for most of its
screen formats.



PUSHBUTTON EDITOR
Programmable Display Pushbutton Legend Editor

  Program Label:  lar-13671
  Size:  1,003
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The Programmable Display Pushbutton (PDP) is a pushbutton device
which has a programmable 16 x 35 matrix of LEDs on the pushbutton
surface.  The Programmable Display Pushbutton Legend Editor, PDPE, is
used to create the LED displays for the pushbuttons. PDPE encodes PDP
control commands and legend data into message byte strings sent to a
Logic Refresh and Control Unit (LRCU). PDPE transmits to the LRCU user
specified commands that control what is displayed on the LED face of
the individual pushbuttons. Upon receiving a command, the LRCU decides
whether or not to send the byte code of the message to a data file so
that it may be called by an applications program.



EXPERT SYSTEM EXECUTIVE
Expert System Executive for Automated Real-Time Monitoring

  Program Label:  msc-20908
  Size:  1,192
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  Real-time data monitoring is a decision making process involving
knowledge of the system being watched and inferences based upon the
observed data. The Expert System Executive is a computer program which
demonstrates the feasibility of automated real-time monitoring. Using
the Executive, the knowledge of a system is formally coded as a set of
rules specifying actions to be taken under various conditions. The
program makes inferences about the observed data based on the
rules. The Executive has been tested by monitoring the Shuttle onboard
navigation console using flight data from an entry simulation. The
test rule base pertaining to onboard state vectors is included in the
program documentation. By supplying an appropriate set of rules, the
Expert System Executive can be adapted to other real-time applications
such as plant operations. Each rule must contain a schedule of
conditions and the action to be executed when all its conditions are
true.



CLIPS
C Language Integrated Production System for Developing Expert Systems

  Program Label:  msc-21208
  Size:  57,232
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The C Language Integrated Production System, CLIPS, is a shell for
developing expert systems. It is designed to allow artificial
intelligence research, development, and delivery on conventional
computers. The primary design goals for CLIPS are portability,
efficiency, and functionality. For these reasons, the program is
written in C. CLIPS meets or outperforms most micro- and minicomputer
based artificial intelligence tools.



CLIPS
C Language Integrated Production System for Developing Expert Systems

  Program Label:  msc-21467
  Size:  57,232
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The C Language Integrated Production System, CLIPS, is a shell for
developing expert systems. It is designed to allow artificial
intelligence research, development, and delivery on conventional
computers. The primary design goals for CLIPS are portability,
efficiency, and functionality. For these reasons, the program is
written in C. CLIPS meets or outperforms most micro- and minicomputer
based artificial intelligence tools.



LOOK
A Text File Display Program

  Program Label:  npo-16358
  Size:  7,653
  Language:  FORTRAN 77 ( 86 %); ASSEMBLER ( 14 %);

  The LOOK program was developed to permit a user to examine a text
file in a psuedo-random access manner. Many engineering and scientific
programs generate large amounts of printed output. Often this output
needs to be examined in only a few places. On mini-computers (like the
DEC VAX) high-speed printers are usually at a premium. One alternative
is to save the output in a text file and examine it with a text
editor. The slowness of a text editor, the possibility of
inadvertently changing the output, and other factors make this an
unsatisfactory solution. The LOOK program provides the user with a
means of rapidly examining the contents of an ASCII text file.



NETWORK TOPOLOGY DESIGN
Optimal Network Topology Design for the Space Station Information System Network

  Program Label:  npo-16809
  Size:  520
  Language:  PASCAL

  This program was developed as part of a research study on the
topology design and performance analysis for the Space Station
Information System (SSIS) network. It uses an efficient algorithm to
generate candidate network designs (consisting of subsets of the set
of all network components) in increasing order of their total costs,
and checks each design to see if it forms an acceptable network. This
technique gives the true cost-optimal network, and is particularly
useful when the network has many constraints and not too many
components.



STAR
A Simple Tool for Automated Reasoning Supporting Hybrid Applications of Artificial Intelligence

  Program Label:  npo-16832
  Size:  13,600
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The Simple Tool for Automated Reasoning program (STAR) is an
interactive, interpreted programming language for the development and
operation of artificial intelligence (AI) application systems. STAR
provides an environment for integrating traditional AI symbolic
processing with functions and data structures defined in compiled
languages such as C, FORTRAN and PASCAL. This type of integration
occurs in a number of AI applications including interpretation of
numerical sensor data, construction of intelligent user interfaces to
existing compiled software packages, and coupling AI techniques with
numerical simulation techniques and control systems software. The STAR
language was created as part of an AI project for the evaluation of
imaging spectrometer data at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.



SOSPAC
Solar Space Power Analysis Code

  Program Label:  npo-16855
  Size:  640
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The Solar Space Power Analysis Code, SOSPAC, was developed to
examine the solar thermal and photovoltaic power generation options
available for a satellite or spacecraft in low earth orbit. SOSPAC is
a preliminary systems analysis tool and enables the engineer to
compare the areas, weights, and costs of several candidate electric
and thermal power systems. The configurations studied include
photovoltaic arrays and parabolic dish systems to produce electricity
only, and in various combinations to provide both thermal and electric
power.



TAPECERT
A Tape Certification Utility for Dec Vax/Vms Computers

  Program Label:  npo-16876
  Size:  420
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  A tape certification program tests the usability of magnetic tape at
different densities by writing test patterns and re-reading them. The
ability to certify tapes is important in environments that do large
amounts of tape processing. TAPECERT is a VAX utility for tape
certification in use at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Multi-Mission
Image Processing Laboratory which handles data from projects such as
Voyager and Galileo. TAPECERT allows the user to select the tape
density, the test pattern to use, the number of allowed retries, and
whether to allow extended interrecord gaps to skip past bad spots on
the tape. The program displays system error messages (parity errors,
for instance) and record count information, with totals every 1000
blocks. TAPECERT is designed such that command procedures can be set
up with defaults for different types of certification runs.



SIMRAND I
Simulation of Research and Development Projects

  Program Label:  npo-16937
  Size:  3,146
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The Simulation of Research and Development Projects program
(SIMRAND) aids in the optimal allocation of R&D resources needed to
achieve project goals. SIMRAND models the system subsets or project
tasks as various network paths to a final goal. Each path is described
in terms of task variables such as cost per hour, cost per unit,
availability of resources, etc. Uncertainty is incorporated by
treating task variables as probabilistic random variables. SIMRAND
calculates the measure of preference for each alternative network. The
networks yielding the highest utility function (or certainty
equivalence) are then ranked as the optimal network paths. SIMRAND has
been used in several economic potential studies at NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory involving solar dish power systems and
photovoltaic array construction. However, any project having tasks
which can be reduced to equations and related by measures of
preference can be modeled.



STAR
A Simple Tool for Automated Reasoning Supporting Hybrid Applications of Artificial Intelligence

  Program Label:  npo-16965
  Size:  13,600
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The Simple Tool for Automated Reasoning program (STAR) is an
interactive, interpreted programming language for the development and
operation of artificial intelligence (AI) application systems. STAR
provides an environment for integrating traditional AI symbolic
processing with functions and data structures defined in compiled
languages such as C, FORTRAN and PASCAL. This type of integration
occurs in a number of AI applications including interpretation of
numerical sensor data, construction of intelligent user interfaces to
existing compiled software packages, and coupling AI techniques with
numerical simulation techniques and control systems software. The STAR
language was created as part of an AI project for the evaluation of
imaging spectrometer data at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.N



FAST POLYNOMIAL TRANSFORM
A Fast Polynomial Transform Program With a Modularized Structure

  Program Label:  npo-17030
  Size:  693
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  This program utilizes a fast polynomial transformation (FPT)
algorithm applicable to two-dimensional mathematical
convolutions. Two-dimensional convolution has many applications,
particularly in image processing. Two-dimensional cyclic convolutions
can be converted to a one-dimensional convolution in a polynomial
ring. Traditional FPT methods decompose the one-dimensional cyclic
polynomial into polynomial convolutions of different lengths. This
program will decompose a cyclic polynomial into polynomial
convolutions of the same length. Thus, only FPTs and Fast Fourier
Transforms of the same length are required. This modular approach can
save computational resources. To further enhance its appeal, the
program is written in the transportable 'C' language.



NASA ARCH
A File Archival System for the Dec VAX

  Program Label:  npo-17129
  Size:  2,515
  Language:  DEC VAX DCL

  The function of the NASA ARCH system is to provide a permanent
storage area for files that are infrequently accessed. The NASA ARCH
routines were designed to provide a simple mechanism by which users
can easily store and retrieve files. The user treats NASA ARCH as the
interface to a black box where files are stored. There are only five
NASA ARCH user commands, even though NASA ARCH employs standard VMS
directives and the VAX BACKUP utility. Special care is taken to
provide the security needed to insure file integrity over a period of
years.



PROCSCAN
Monitoring the Execution of a VAX Image

  Program Label:  npo-17297
  Size:  955
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE ( 77 %); ASSEMBLER ( 13 %); FORTRAN 77 

  The program PROCSCAN was developed to monitor the profile of an
executable image during execution. The purpose is to identify the
routines where a program is spending most of its time. Thus PROCSCAN
can be a very useful first step in program optimization. The output
from PROCSCAN is a sorted histogram of subroutines versus time spent
in each subroutine. The data represents a proportionate sampling of
where the program is spending its time. Over a period of a few CPU
minutes, a fairly accurate picture can be formed. If a program has
been linked with the /NOTRACEBACK qualifier, or it calls routines
contained within a shareable library, then PROCSCAN will not function.



SCANEXE
Examining The Subroutine Structure Of A Vax Image

  Program Label:  npo-17298
  Size:  770
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE ( 83 %); FORTRAN 77 ( 13 %); ASSEMBLER 

  SCANEXE is a command for the DEC VAX used to scan a VMS executable
image and print information about the routines it uses. Optionally,
SCANEXE lists each routine, with its entry point, and how many times
it is called, if at all. Information on the progress of the program
will be optionally printed as it analyzes the various executable
components.



TEXVIEW
Production of Viewgraphs With Tex

  Program Label:  npo-17299
  Size:  1,692
  Language:  TEX

  TEXVIEW is a package of TEX macros that facilitate viewgraph
production. TEXVIEW is based on TEX, a public domain typesetting
language developed by Dr. Donald Knuth of Stanford University. The
TEXVIEW macros are grouped into the following categories: format
control; indentation control; font control; spacing control; graphical
control; and page layout.



ZED
A Line Editor for the Dec VAX

  Program Label:  npo-17300
  Size:  7,058
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The ZED editor for the DEC VAX is a simple, yet powerful line editor
for text, program source code, and non-binary data. Line editors can
be superior to screen editors in some cases, such as executing complex
multiple or conditional commands, or editing via slow modem lines. ZED
excels in the area of text processing by using procedure files. For
example, such procedures can reformat a file of addresses or remove
all comment lines from a FORTRAN program.  In addition to command
files, ZED also features versatile search qualifiers, global changes,
conditionals, on-line help, hexadecimal mode,space compression,
looping, logical combinations of search strings, journaling, visible
control characters, and automatic detabbing.



LONGLIB
A Graphics Library

  Program Label:  npo-17443
  Size:  28,191
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  This library is a set of subroutines designed for vector plotting to
CRT's, plotters, dot matrix, and laser printers. LONGLIB subroutines
are invoked by program calls similar to standard CALCOMP routines. In
addition to the basic plotting routines, LONGLIB contains an extensive
set of routines to allow viewport clipping, extended character sets,
graphic input, shading, polar plots, and 3-D plotting with or without
hidden line removal. LONGLIB capabilities include surface plots,
contours, histograms, logarithm axes, world maps, and seismic
plots. LONGLIB includes master subroutines, which are self-contained
series of commonly used individual subroutines. When invoked, the
master routine will initialize the plotting package, and will plot
multiple curves, scatter plots, log plots, 3-D plots, etc. and then
close the plot package, all with a single call.



AOFA
Three-dimensional Supersonic Viscous Flow

  Program Label:  arc-11087
  Size:  2,175
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  AOFA determines the complete viscous and inviscid flow around a body
of revolution at a given angle of attack and traveling at supersonic
speeds. The viscous calculations from this program agree with
experimental values for surface and pitot pressures and with surface
heating rates. At high speeds, lee-side flows are important because
the local heating is difficult to correlate and because the shed
vortices can interact with vehicle components such as a canopy or a
vertical tail. This program should find application in the design
analysis of any high speed vehicle.



AIRCRAFT MOTIONS
Analysis of Aircraft Motions from Air Traffic Control Radar Records

  Program Label:  arc-11132
  Size:  360
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program was developed by Ames Research Center, in cooperation
with the National Transportation Safety Board, as a technique for
deriving time histories of an aircraft's motion from Air Traffic
Control (ATC) radar records. This technique uses the radar range and
azimuth data, along with the downlinked altitude data, to derive an
expanded set of data which includes airspeed, lift, attitude angles
(pitch, roll, and heading), etc. This technique should prove useful as
a source of data in the investigation of commercial airline accidents
and in the analysis of accidents involving aircraft which do not have
onboard data recorders (e.g., military, shorthaul, and general
aviation).



NASDS
Nastran/Discos/Samsan Dmap Bridging Program

  Program Label:  gsc-12902
  Size:  1,130
  Language:  NASTRAN DMAP ( 35 %); FORTRAN IV ( 65 %);

  The NASTRAN/DISCOS/SAMSAN bridging program and its associated data
file processor provide the flexible structure control designer with a
means of tying together the following programs for the design and
analysis of flexible structure controllers: 1) the NASA Structural
Analysis (NASTRAN) system which provides general finite element and
matrix manipulation capabilities for the analysis of structures, 2)
the Dynamic Interaction Simulation of Controls and Structure (DISCOS)
program which provides for the time and frequency domain analysis of
any dynamic system that can be modeled as a system of interconnected
rigid and flexible bodies, and 3) the SAMSAN library which provides a
self-consistent set of algorithms for the support of large-order
controls system design and evaluation studies with an emphasis on
sampled system analysis.



QUIKVIS
Celestial Target Availability Information

  Program Label:  gsc-13083
  Size:  24,848
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  QUIKVIS computes the times during an Earth orbit when geometric
requirements are satisfied for observing celestial objects. The
observed objects may be fixed (stars, etc.) or moving (sun, moon,
planets). QUIKVIS is useful for preflight analysis by those needing
information on the availability of celestial objects to be
observed. Two types of analyses are performed by QUIKVIS. One is used
when specific objects are known, the other when targets are unknown
and potentially useful regions of the sky must be identified. The
results are useful in selecting candidate targets, examining the
effects of observation requirements, and doing gross assessments of
the effects of the orbit's right ascension of the ascending node
(RAAN). The results are not appropriate when high accuracy is needed
(e.g. for scheduling actual mission operations).



PRESSURE SURGES
Estimating Pressure Surges in Cryogenic Liquid-Vapor Systems

  Program Label:  ksc-11312
  Size:  876
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  This mathematical model has been developed for the prediction of
pressure behavior in single- and two-phase cryogenic systems. A
transient liquid flow analysis has been modified to incorporate the
behavior of gas bubbles and is used to predict maximum pressure in
cryogenic transfer systems consisting of complex pipe and valve
arrangements under both steady state and transient conditions. This
simulation has compared favorably with data obtained during the
transfer of liquid oxygen from ground storage tanks to the Shuttle
Orbiter's external tanks.



FLOW IN SHOCK LAYER
Determination of Flow Field in a Nonequilibrium Shock Layer

  Program Label:  lar-11198
  Size:  3,000
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

   An approximate inverse solution is presented for the nonequilibrium
flow in the inviscid shock layer about a vehicle in hypersonic
flight. The method is based upon a thin-shock-layer approximation and
has the advantage of being applicable to both subsonic and supersonic
regions of the shock layer. The relative simplicity of the method
allows for a significant reduction in storage capacity and computing
time.  Additional cases are presented for entry of spherical nose
cones into representative Venusian and Matrian atmospheres. A digital
computer program written in FORTRAN language is presented that permits
an arbitrary gas mixture to be employed in the solution. The effects
of vibration, dissociation, recombination, electronic excitation, and
ionization are included in the program.



EXHAUST FLOW FIELDS
Analysis of Three-Dimensional Supersonic Nozzle Exhaust Flow Fields

  Program Label:  lar-11596
  Size:  6,283
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  A second order numerical method employing reference plane
characteristics has been developed for the calculation of
geometrically complex three dimensional nozzle-exhaust flow fields,
heretofore uncalculable. The program calculates and carries along the
underexpansion shock and contact as discrete discontinuity surfaces,
for a nonuniform vehicle external flow. Additionally, shock formation
due to coalescence is detected. A wide variety of geometric problems
may be considered since the reference plane method has been developed
for three separate coordinate systems, all incorporated into a single
program.



HIGH SPEED FLOW
Super/Hypersonic Inviscid Flow Around Real Configurations

  Program Label:  lar-11891
  Size:  16,174
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This package was developed to compute the inviscid super/hypersonic
flow field about complex vehicle geometries accurately and
efficiently. A second-order accurate finite difference scheme is used
to integrate the three-dimensional Euler equations in regions of
continuous flow, while all shock waves are computed as discontinuities
via the Rankine-Hugoniot jump conditions. This package has the ability
to compute blunt nose entropy layers in detail. Real gas effects for
equilibrium air are included using curve fits of Mollier charts. This
package can be a very useful tool in the design and analysis of high
speed vehicles such as supersonic aircraft, hypersonic transports, and
re-entry spacecraft (shuttle orbiter).



MASPROP
Calculation of Mass Properties of a Rigid Structure

  Program Label:  lar-12454
  Size:  857
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The computer program MASPROP was developed to rapidly calculate the
mass properties of complex rigid structural systems. This program's
basic premise is that complex systems can be adequately described by a
combination of basic elementary structural shapes. Thirteen widely
used basic structural shapes are available.  MASPROP provides a
designer with a simple technique that requires minimal input to
calculate the mass properties of a complex rigid structure and should
be useful in any situation where one needs to calculate the center of
gravity and moments of inertia of a complex structure.



COMBUSTION FLOW FIELDS
Viscous Characterictics Analysis of Combustion Flow Fields

  Program Label:  lar-12598
  Size:  5,170
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This computer program was developed to use viscous characteristics
theory to analyze supersonic combustion flow fields with imbedded
subsonic regions. Intended to be used as a practical design tool for
two-dimensional and axisymmetric supersonic combustor development,
this program has proven useful in the analysis of such problems as
determining the flow field of a single underexpanded hydrogen jet, the
internal flow of a gas sampling probe, the effects of fuel-injector
strut shape, and the effects of changes in combustor configuration.



NOZZLE FLOW
Three Dimensional Navier-Stokes Equations for Flow Over Nonaxisymmetric Nozzle Configurations

  Program Label:  lar-12962
  Size:  14,735
  Language:  FORTRAN IV ( 99 %); ASSEMBLER ( 01 %);

  A set of computer codes has been developed for solving the
three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations for the flow over
nonaxisymmetric nozzle configurations. The objective in developing
these codes was to be able to compute the internal and external
viscous flowfield about an isolated nozzle, so that the flow
characteristics and performance of three-dimensional jet engine
exhaust nozzles could be predicted. The approach is based on using an
efficient implicit numerical method to solve the unsteady
Navier-Stokes equations in a boundary-conforming curvilinear
coordinate system to obtain the desired time-asymptotic steady-state
solution. Flow turbulence effects are simulated by means of algebraic
turbulence models for the effective turbulent eddy viscosity and
Prandlt number.



PAFAC
Plastic and Failure Analysis of Composites

  Program Label:  lar-13183
  Size:  7,069
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The increasing number of applications of fiber-reinforced composites
in industry demands a detailed understanding of their material
properties and behavior. A three-dimensional finite-element computer
program called PAFAC (Plastic and Failure Analysis of Composites) has
been developed for the elastic-plastic analysis of fiber-reinforced
composite materials and structures. The evaluation of stresses and
deformations at edges, cutouts, and joints is essential in
understanding the strength and failure for metal-matrix composites
since the onset of plastic yielding starts very early in the loading
process as compared to the composite's ultimate strength. Such
comprehensive analysis can only be achieved by a finite-element
program like PAFAC. PAFAC is particularly suited for the analysis of
laminated metal-matrix composites. It can model the elastic-plastic
behavior of the matrix phase while the fibers remain elastic. Since
the PAFAC program uses a three-dimensional element, the program can
also model the individual layers of the laminate to account for
thickness effects.



GASP
Thermodynamic and Transport Properties of Helium, Methane, Neon, Nitrogen, Carbon Monoxide, Carbon Dioxide, Oxygen and Argon

  Program Label:  lew-11629
  Size:  2,183
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  GASP calculates the thermodynamic and transport properties of argon,
carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, fluorine, methane, neon, nitrogen,
and oxygen. GASP accepts any two of pressure, temperature, or density
as input.  Outputs are temperature, density, pressure, entropy,
enthalpy, specific heats, expansion coefficient, sonic velocity,
viscosity, thermal conductivity, and surface tension. A special
technique is provided to estimate the thermal conductivity near the
thermodynamic critical point.



BLADE3D
Three-Dimensional, Inviscid, Rotational Flows With Shock Waves in Axial Compressor Blade Rows

  Program Label:  lew-13910
  Size:  5,854
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The BLADE3D computer program provides for the calculation of the
inviscid flow field in a fully three-dimensional blade passage of an
axial compressor rotor or stator. BLADE3D provides the engineer with
an accurate inviscid solution capability. The program is applicable to
arbitrary axial compressor hub, tip, and blade geometries, including
rotors with dampers (part-span shrouds). The analysis method employed
in BLADE3D is valid for subsonic, transonic, and supersonic flows,
including choked flows. BLADE3D may also be used for flow calculations
in axial turbines, but with lowered resolution in sections of the
flow.



FIN HEAT TRANSFER
Solution of Radiation and Convection Fin Heat Transfer Problems

  Program Label:  lew-13978
  Size:  1,000
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program was developed to provide for the rapid, steady-state
solution of fin-type heat transfer problems. The program accommodates
a variety of fin-type heat conduction applications involving radiative
and convective boundary conditions with additionally imposed local
heat flux. It also accommodates lengthwise variation of fin boundary
conditions, conductances, and dimensions. The program is particularly
suited for use in parametric studies during fin design. It can also be
used for a variety of one-dimensional and two-dimensional heat
transfer problems that do not correspond specifically to fin-type
applications. A powerful and efficient analytic tool, this program can
achieve an order-of-magnitude reduction in run time when employed as a
substitute for a general purpose heat transfer program.



AESOP
Interactive Design of Linear Quadratic Regulators and Kalman Filters

  Program Label:  lew-14128
  Size:  9,258
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  AESOP was developed to solve a number of problems associated with
the design of controls and state estimators for linear time-invariant
systems. The systems considered are modeled in state-variable form by
a set of linear differential and algebraic equations with constant
coefficients. Two key problems solved by AESOP are the linear
quadratic regulator (LQR) design problem and the steady-state Kalman
filter design problem. AESOP is designed to be used in an interactive
manner.  The user can solve design problems and analyze the solutions
in a single interactive session. Both numerical and graphical
information are available to the user during the session.



CONVECTIVE DEPOSITION
Multicomponent Convective Deposition Rates

  Program Label:  lew-14366
  Size:  698
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  A wide variety of engineering applications including chemical
coating of metals, solid state electronics device fabrication,
filtration, aircraft icing, corrosion and fouling of gas turbine
blades, and heat exchangers deal with vapor and particle capture,
either to exploit or suppress it. A comprehensive but tractable
convective diffusion deposition rate theory exists based on the
assumption of a multicomponent 'chemically frozen' boundary layer
(CFBL). The theory makes full use of available transport coefficient
and property information. CFBL is applicable under conditions of
multicomponent vapor transport, and is capable of simultaneously
dealing with "heavy molecule" particle transport. This CFBL theory has
been incorporated into a simple computer program for calculating
alkali sulfate deposition rates. With code changes, this program
should be adaptable to other deposition problems.



COMPRESSIBLE FLOW
Solving Compressible Flow Problems Using Electrical Analogy

  Program Label:  mfs-14683
  Size:  469
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program solves problems involving compressible pipe flow with
heat transfer through the use of an electrical analogy. To adapt the
container data for program usage, the container surfaces are assigned
node numbers.  To balance the system to a specified pressure drop, one
of two compressible flow solutions can be used: the flow can be fixed
and the orifice diameters adjusted or orifice sizes fixed and the flow
corrected.  Solving for manifold design parameters, the fixed flow
routine is first used to determine approximate orifice sizes and flow
rates. Container inlet temperature values are compared with the
required temperatures and final adjustments are made on the variable
flow routine to yield design values for orifice size, flow and
temperature.



FLUID FLOW IN PIPE
Thermal Analysis Of Fluid Flow In A Pipe With a Variable External Thermal Environment

  Program Label:  mfs-15148
  Size:  300
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The computer program has the capability of solving heat transfer
problems for fluid flow systems with a variable external thermal
environment for the pipe and variable inlet fluid temperature and flow
rate.  This item may be used for the heat transfer analysis of fluid
flow systems with a variable external thermal environment for the pipe
and variable inlet fluid temperature and flow rate.  Possible
extensions include the analysis of vacuum-jacketed and insulated
piping systems. The techniques used could also be extended to include
the thermal analysis of exposed cryogenic piping systems during
cooldown and frost formation.



TAP
Thermal Analyzer Program

  Program Label:  mfs-18410
  Size:  1,062
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program solves N-dimensional transient heat transfer problems
by the analysis of an analogous network of nodes joined by
conductors. A capacitance, C, a heat generation rate, Q, and a
temperature, T, are associated with each node. A conductance, K, is
associated with each conductor.  Convection and radiation are
evaluated at the beginning of each time interval. Conduction, if
variable, may be made a function of the average temperature of the two
connecting nodes. Such conduction is evaluated at the beginning of
each time interval.



EQUILIBRIUM COMPOSITION
Multiphase Chemical Equilibrium Composition

  Program Label:  msc-01119
  Size:  1,793
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program is designed for the calculation of equilibrium
composition of a complex, multiphase chemical system such as the
ablation products of an inorganic-reinformed plastic. The method is
based on the concept of free energy minimization of the total
system. It is very general and may find applications in a diversified
area. The program is designed to cover a maximum of 12 elements in 80
gaseous and 15 condensed species. The elements currently included in
this program are C, O, H, N, Si, A, Al, B, and Ca. The temperature
range is 0 to 24,000 degrees K. Also, certain thermodynamic properties
of the system are determined as by-products of the main calculations.



GAS PERFORMANCE
Axisymmetric Two-Phase Perfect Gas Performance

  Program Label:  msc-11774
  Size:  3,366
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program calculates the inviscid axisymmetric nozzle expansion
of propellant systems having both gaseous and condensed exhaust
products. The program considers the velocity and thermal lags (for ten
particle groups) between the gaseous and condensed combustion products
(when they are present in the chamber). It does not consider mass
transfer (only momentum and energy transfer) between gaseous and
condensed combustion products. It also does not consider
nonequilibrium effects of finite rate chemical reactions between
gaseous and combustion products. This program considers only the
expansion of a uniform mixture (the ideal engine case). Standard
explicit integration methods are utilized. The program is designed for
engineering use and is specified and programmed in a straightforward
manner to facilitate its use as a development tool.



PROPULSION SYSTEM
Evaluation of Design Parameters and Size of a Low Pressure Auxiliary Propulsion System

  Program Label:  msc-14016
  Size:  1,648
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This program was written to evaluate and define optimum design
parameters and size of a low pressure auxiliary propulsion system
(APS). The APS will provide attitude and translational control, using
gaseous hydrogen and oxygen propellants for both the booster and
orbiter elements of a NASA Space Shuttle Vehicle. The program
evaluates, for various space shuttle performance requirements, the
optimum subsystem design parameters such as engine chamber pressure,
mixture ratio, expansion ratio, and component/subsystem weight and
size. The APS design point, sensitivities to design parameters, and
mission requirements can be obtained quickly with the program. The
program could be revised to evaluate and optimize oxygen and hydrogen
subsystem concepts for fuel cell and environmental control on space
vehicles.



THERMAL PROTECTION SYSTEM
TPS Multidimensional Heat Conduction Program

  Program Label:  msc-18616
  Size:  8,140
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  The Thermal Protection System (TPS) for the Space Shuttle consists
of an outer layer of rigid surface insulation tiles. It is important
that an accurate understanding of the thermal behavior of this system
be obtained prior to usage. This computer program was developed to
compute the transient temperature history and the steady-state
temperatures of complex problems associated with the TPS, but the
program could be used in the thermal analysis of most
three-dimensional systems.



PSANAL
Composite Point Stress Analysis

  Program Label:  msc-18978
  Size:  1,142
  Language:  FORTRAN IV

  This composite material computer program, PSANAL, is a linear
laminate analysis program developed to compute the laminate elastic
and thermal properties and the allowable load levels for any
combination of applied membrane and bending loads occuring at a point.
Mechanically applied loads may consist of three stress resultants and
three stress couples, which are assumed to be acting in constant ratio
and may be applied in any combination. Individual lamina thermal loads
are computed and included in the allowable-load analysis. No
restrictions are placed on either laminate balance or symmetry. Both
unidirectional "unwoven" tape and pseudo-unidirectional/ bidirectional
"woven" fabric prepregs can be accommodated by PSANAL.



GAS STORAGE SIMULATION
High Pressure Gas Storage System Blowdown and Charging Models

  Program Label:  msc-19658
  Size:  443
  Language:  IBM 360 CSMP ( 85 %); FORTRAN IV ( 15 %);

  This program is a simulation model for predicting the pressure and
temperature histories occurring in recharge or blowdown processes for
high pressure gas storage systems. The model allows for real gas
effects as well as conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer
to the storage container walls for any environmental boundary
conditions. The parameter values currently encoded into the program
code are those appropriate for sizing the fuel cell high pressure
hydrogen and oxygen reactant gas storage subsystem for the Shuttle
Orbiter 101 approach and landing test program. However the model can
be applied with some modification to sizing and performance prediction
of industrial high pressure gas storage systems subject to time
varying thermal environmental conditions.



GENERAL FLOW DISTRIBUTION
General Flow Distribution Program  for Hydraulic Systems

  Program Label:  msc-20306
  Size:  520
  Language:  FORTRAN V

  The General Flow Distribution Program was developed to analyze
pressure drops and flow distribution in closed and open hydraulic
systems. The program analyzes a system on the basis of incompressible
flow even though the system may contain either compressible or
incompressible fluid. The program has been used to analyze such
orbiter hydraulic systems as the Air Revitalization System in the
Environmental Control and Life Support System. The General Flow
Distribution Program is capable of solving fixed or variable flow
problems for series, parallel, or series-parallel systems.



CUMBIN
Cumulative Binomial Programs

  Program Label:  npo-17555
  Size:  89
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The cumulative binomial program, CUMBIN, is one of a set of three
programs which calculate cumulative binomial probability distributions
for arbitrary inputs. The three programs, CUMBIN, NEWTONP (NPO-17556),
and CROSSER (NPO-17557), can be used independently of one
another. CUMBIN can be used by statisticians and users of statistical
procedures, test planners, designers, and numerical analysts. The
program has been used for reliability/availability calculations.



NEWTONP
Cumulative Binomial Programs

  Program Label:  npo-17556
  Size:  147
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The cumulative binomial program, NEWTONP, is one of a set of three
programs which calculate cumulative binomial probability distributions
for arbitrary inputs. The three programs, NEWTONP, CUMBIN (NPO-17555),
and CROSSER (NPO-17557), can be used independently of one
another. NEWTONP can be used by statisticians and users of statistical
procedures, test planners, designers, and numerical analysts. The
program has been used for reliability/availability calculations.



CROSSER
Cumulative Binomial Programs

  Program Label:  npo-17557
  Size:  144
  Language:  C-LANGUAGE

  The cumulative binomial program, CROSSER, is one of a set of three
programs which calculate cumulative binomial probability distributions
for arbitrary inputs. The three programs, CROSSER, CUMBIN (NPO-17555),
and NEWTONP (NPO-17556), can be used independently of one
another. CROSSER can be used by statisticians and users of statistical
procedures, test planners, designers, and numerical analysts. The
program has been used for reliability/availability calculations.



SOLAR FLUX
Simplified Calculation of Solar Flux on the Side Wall of Cylindrical Cavity Solar Receivers

  Program Label:  npo-17732
  Size:  364
  Language:  FORTRAN 77

  The Simplified Calculation of Solar Flux Distribution on the Side
Wall of Cylindrical Cavity Solar Receivers program employs a simple
solar flux calculation algorithm for a cylindrical cavity type solar
receiver. Applications of this program include the study of solar
energy, heat transfer, and space power-solar dynamics engineering.



