 ANDUCT- VELOCITY GRADIENT METHOD FOR CALCULATING VELOCITIES IN AN AXISYM-
METRIC ANNULAR DUCT

( NASA Lewis Research Center )

     Turbomachinery components are often connected by ducts, which are usu-
ally annular. The configurations and aerodynamic characteristics of these
ducts are crucial to the optimum performance of the turbomachinery blade
rows. The ANDUCT computer program was developed to calculate the velocity
distribution along an arbitrary line between the inner and outer walls of an
annular duct with axisymmetric swirling flow. Although other programs are
available for duct analysis, the use of the velocity gradient method makes
the ANDUCT program fast and convenient while requiring only modest computer
resources.

     A fast and easy method of analyzing the flow through a duct with axisym-
metric flow is the velocity gradient method, also known as the stream fila-
ment or streamline curvature method. This method has been used extensively
for blade passages but has not been widely used for ducts, except for the
radial equilibrium equation. In ANDUCT, a velocity gradient equation de-
rived from the momentum equation is used to determine the velocity varia-
tion along an arbitrary straight line between the inner and outer wall of an
annular duct. The velocity gradient equation is used with an assumed varia-
tion of meridional streamline curvature. Upstream flow conditions may vary
between the inner and outer walls, and an assumed total pressure distribu-
tion may be specified. ANDUCT works best for well-guided passages and where
the curvature of the walls is small as compared to the width of the passage.

     The ANDUCT program is written in FORTRAN IV for batch execution and has
been implemented on an IBM 370 series computer with a central memory re-
quirement of approximately 60K of 8 bit bytes. The ANDUCT program was de-
veloped in 1982.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 370 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 539 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LEW-14000

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $14.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $300.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $28.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $600.00



                                        1

