 NASDS- NASTRAN/DISCOS/SAMSAN DMAP BRIDGING PROGRAM

( NASA Goddard Space Flight Center )

     The design of a controller for a flexible structure requires an ability
to obtain flexible body data in a format compatible with design and perfor-
mance evaluation methods. The control designer may have to work with sev-
eral different programs to obtain all the data and capabilities he needs.
The NASTRAN/DISCOS/SAMSAN bridging program and its associated data file
processor provide the flexible structure control designer with a means of
tying together the following programs: 1) the NASA Structural Analysis
(NASTRAN) system which provides general finite element and matrix manipu-
lation capabilities for the analysis of structures, 2) the Dynamic Interac-
tion Simulation of Controls and Structure (DISCOS) program which provides
for the time and frequency domain analysis of any dynamic system that can
be modeled as a system of interconnected rigid and flexible bodies, and 3)
the SAMSAN library which provides a self-consistent set of algorithms for
the support of large-order controls system design and evaluation studies
with an emphasis on sampled system analysis. The NASTRAN/DISCOS/SAMSAN
bridging program allows the engineer to integrate these three programs into
a complete package for the design and analysis of flexible structure con-
trollers.

     The NASTRAN/DISCOS/SAMSAN bridging program and its associated data
file processor may be used to obtain all of the data necessary for defining
a flexible body to DISCOS or to any program developed using the SAMSAN li-
brary. The bridging program consists of a NASTRAN DMAP sequence which may
be used to obtain a variety of different types of modal data including stan-
dard, Craig-Bampton, augmented body, and boundary compliance. The user may
also request the generation of the following: mass, stiffness, damping,
and constraint matrices; data for fine to coarse mesh mass distribution in-
terpolation programs; modal damping, modal observability/ controllabil-
ity matrices; coarse or fine mesh modal data; and an assortment of matrices
useful for non-DISCOS applications and diagnostic analysis. All data is
output from NASTRAN via the functional module OUTPUT2. The associated data
file processor can reformat an OUTPUT2 data file into a format compatible
with the sparse matrix read routines in the SAMSAN library.

     The NASTRAN/DISCOS/SAMSAN bridging program is written in the NASTRAN
DMAP language and the associated OUTPUT2 data file processor is written in
FORTRAN IV. Both programs are intended for batch execution and have been
implemented on a DEC VAX series computer operating under VMS. The bridging
program and associated data file processor were developed in 1983. The NAS-
TRAN, DISCOS, and SAMSAN software packages are available separately from
COSMIC.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                        1




LANGUAGE: NASTRAN DMAP ( 35 %); FORTRAN IV ( 65 %);

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 1,130 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX FILES-11 Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: GSC-12902

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $96.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $192.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

