 UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS STATIC AEROELASTIC PROGRAM

( KANSAS UNIV. )

     This software package contains three programs which compute geomet-
ric, mass, aerodynamic, and structural characteristics of fighter type
aircraft. The programs were developed for computational support of a para-
metric study of planform and aeroelastic effects on aerodynamic center and
stability derivatives. They calculate alpha- and q- stability derivatives
and induced drag for thin elastic aeroplanes at subsonic and supersonic
speeds. The programs are applicable to studies of steady state aeroelastic
effects on stability characteristics of airplanes, but results are limited
in validity to wings of typical fighter airplanes with a weight of 40,000
pounds (178,000 Newtons) and wing structures designed to withstand a limit
load of 7.33 g's.

     The programs represent the airplane at subsonic and supersonic speeds
as thin surface(s) (without dihedral) composed of discrete panels of con-
stant pressure for the aerodynamic effects, and as slender beam(s) for the
structural effects. They compute the static aeroelastic angle-of-attack
and pitch rate stability derivatives for a twisted and cambered thin air-
plane configuration at various flight conditions.

     The program operates in batch mode and was written in CDC FORTRAN Ver-
sion 2.3 to run on CDC 6000 Series computers with the SCOPE 3.0 Base Operat-
ing System and Library Tape.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC 6000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,865 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-11602

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $57.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $114.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        1

