 SSSP- SPACE SHUTTLE SYNTHESIS PROGRAM

( GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP. )

     The Space Shuttle Synthesis Program (SSSP) automates the trajectory ,
weights and performance computations essential to predesign of the Space
Shuttle system for earth-to-orbit operations. The two-stage Space Shut-
tle system is a completely reusable space transportation system consisting
of a booster and an orbiter element. The SSSP'S major parts are a detailed
weight/volume routine, a precision three-dimensional trajectory simula-
tion, and the iteration and synthesis logic necessary to satisfy the hard-
ware and trajectory constraints.

     The SSSP is a highly useful tool in conceptual design studies where the
effects of various trajectory configuration and shuttle subsystem param-
eters must be evaluated relatively rapidly and economically. The program
furnishes sensitivity and tradeoff data for proper selection of configu-
ration and trajectory predesign parameters. Emphasis is placed upon pre-
design simplicity and minimum input preparation. Characteristic equations
for describing aerodynamic and propulsion models and for computing weights
and volumes are kept relatively simple. The synthesis program is designed
for a relatively large number of two-stage Space Shuttle configurations and
mission types, but avoids the complexity of a completely generalized com-
puter program that would be unwieldy to use and/or modify.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: UNIVAC 1100 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 7,810 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: MSC-13914

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $92.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $184.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        1

