 IBASE- THE IMAGE DATABASE

( INFORMATICS, INC. )

     The Image Database program, IBASE, is a general purpose imagery infor-
mation system. The system includes functions for cataloging and managing
digital imagery files, and for conducting analyses of these images. Use of
the system may be accomplished either by commands or through a hierarchy of
menus. The analytical capabilities of IBASE include contingency tables,
image filtering (low-, high-, and bandpass), proximity maps, clustering,
histograms, regression, slope calculations, scaling, and Boolean manipu-
lations.

     All information stored by IBASE is considered part of a GeoCube. A
GeoCube is a rectangular region defined by the coordinates of two opposite
corners, and can store many images called layers. Each layer contains in-
formation such as name, date, and layer type. An IBASE layer can contain re-
port or data information. Report layers hold text information, or the re-
sults of an IBASE analysis. Data layers hold the image specifications such
as pixel size, number of samples, and the actual continuous/discrete, inte-
ger/byte image data samples. The various analyses are performed by speci-
fying input data layers and output report layers. Typical IBASE operations
include listing GeoCubes, printing data or report layers, mapping data lay-
ers using a line printer gray scale, editing data, and routine file manage-
ment with procedures such as copy, delete, list, print, and summarize.

     IBASE is written in FORTRAN 77 for interactive execution and has been
implemented on a DEC VAX 11/780 series computer operating under VMS 2.4.
This program was developed in 1986.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 14,838 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX FILES-11 Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: ARC-11712

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $18.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $2000.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $36.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $4000.00



                                        1

