 SOPAD- SEPARATION OF OVERLAPPING PEAKS AND ANALYSIS OF DERIVATIVES

( VIGYAN RESEARCH ASSOC. INC. )

     SOPAD was developed for performing the separation of overlapping peaks
and the analysis of derivatives of x-ray diffraction data. In qualitative
and quantitative x-ray diffraction problems, overlapping profiles intro-
duce difficulties that prevent an accurate determination of both peak po-
sitions and the areas of the diffraction peaks. This problem is prevalent
in complex multi-element alloys and in certain metal matrix composites be-
cause of the large number of phases present. SOPAD helps the analyst to get
the most information out of the available diffraction data.

     SOPAD uses a Marquardt-type nonlinear regression routine to refine
initial estimates of the individual peak positions, intensities, shapes,
and half-widths. Data smoothing routines and second derivative routines
are included to aid in making good estimates of the number of peaks and their
positions. The Pearson-VII distribution, which requires only four param-
eters per peak, is used to describe and refine the individual peaks. Also
included is the capability to treat doublets without increasing the total
number of parameters.

     The SOPAD program is written in FORTRAN 77 for batch execution and has
been implemented on a CDC CYBER 170 series computer with a central memory
requirement of approximately 68K (octal) of 60 bit words. SOPAD was devel-
oped in 1983.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC CYBER 170 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 995 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-13276

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $19.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $300.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $38.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $600.00



                                        1

