 ESTIMATING PRESSURE SURGES IN CRYOGENIC LIQUID-VAPOR SYSTEMS

( UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA )

     This mathematical model has been developed for the prediction of pres-
sure behavior in single- and two-phase cryogenic systems. A transient liq-
uid flow analysis has been modified to incorporate the behavior of gas bub-
bles and is used to predict maximum pressure in cryogenic transfer systems
consisting of complex pipe and valve arrangements under both steady state
and transient conditions. This simulation has compared favorably with data
obtained during the transfer of liquid oxygen from ground storage tanks to
the Shuttle Orbiter's external tanks.

     Within cryogenic liquid transfer systems, vapor cavities can easily
be formed if a localized reduction in pressure occurs. Any valve opening or
closing may cause the cavities to form or collapse due to a pressure varia-
tion. The collapse of an entrapped vapor cavity causes a waterhammer-type
effect and the creation of high pressure waves, which may damage the piping
system and associated instrumentation. To predict the magnitude of unde-
sirable pressure surges, this model uses the method of characteristics and
basic fluid mechanics equations, taking into account gas bubbles and vapor
cavities. The program output includes maximum pressure at junctions, the
pressure head and velocity at upstream and downstream ends, and the length
of any vapor cavities in the piping system.

     This program is written in FORTRAN 77 for batch execution and has been
implemented on a DEC VAX series computer with a central memory requirement
of approximately 105K of 8 bit bytes. This program was developed in 1983.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC VAX SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 876 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI DEC VAX FILES-11 Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: KSC-11312

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $35.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $400.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $70.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $800.00



                                        1

