 DESIGN OF TWO-DIMENSIONAL SUPERSONIC TURBINE ROTOR BLADES WITH BOUNDARY-
LAYER CORRECTION

( NASA Lewis Research Center )

     A computer program has been developed for the design of supersonic ro-
tor blades where losses are accounted for by correcting the ideal blade ge-
ometry for boundary layer displacement thickness. The ideal blade passage
is designed by the method of characteristics and is based on establishing
vortex flow within the passage. Boundary-layer parameters (displacement
and momentum thicknesses) are calculated for the ideal passage, and the fi-
nal blade geometry is obtained by adding the displacement thicknesses to
the ideal nozzle coordinates. The boundary-layer parameters are also used
to calculate the aftermixing conditions downstream of the rotor blades as-
suming the flow mixes to a uniform state. The computer program input con-
sists essentially of the rotor inlet and outlet Mach numbers, upper- and
lower-surface Mach numbers, inlet flow angle, specific heat ratio, and to-
tal flow conditions. The program gas properties are set up for air. Addi-
tional gases require changes to be made to the program. The computer output
consists of the corrected rotor blade coordinates, the principal boundary-
layer parameters, and the aftermixing conditions.

     This program is written in FORTRAN IV for batch execution and has been
implemented on an IBM 7094. This program was developed in 1971.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 7000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,011 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LEW-11744

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $13.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $26.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        1

