 SIMPLIFIED CALCULATION OF SOLAR FLUX ON THE SIDE WALL OF CYLINDRICAL CAV-
ITY SOLAR RECEIVERS

( Cal Tech/Jet Propulsion Lab. )

     The Simplified Calculation of Solar Flux Distribution on the Side Wall
of Cylindrical Cavity Solar Receivers program employs a simple solar flux
calculation algorithm for a cylindrical cavity type solar receiver. Appli-
cations of this program include the study of solar energy, heat transfer,
and space power-solar dynamics engineering.

     The aperture plate of the receiver is assumed to be located in the fo-
cal plane of a paraboloidal concentrator, and the geometry is assumed to be
axisymmetric. The concentrator slope error is assumed to be the only sur-
face error; it is assumed that there are no pointing or misalignment errors.
Using cone optics, the contour error method is utilized to handle the slope
error of the concentrator. The flux distribution on the side wall is calcu-
lated by integration of the energy incident from cones emanating from all
the differential elements on the concentrator. The calculations are done
for any set of dimensions and properties of the receiver and the concentra-
tor, and account for any spillover on the aperture plate.

     The results of this algorithm compared excellently with those pre-
dicted by more complicated programs. Because of the utilization of axial
symmetry and overall simplification, it is extremely fast. It can be easily
extended to other axi-symmetric receiver geometries.

     The program was written in Fortran 77, compiled using a Ryan McFarland
compiler, and run on an IBM PC-AT with a math coprocessor. It requires 60K
of memory and has been implemented under MS-DOS 3.2.1. The program was de-
veloped in 1988.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM PC SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 364 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 5.25 Inch IBM PC DOS Format Diskette

PROGRAM NUMBER: NPO-17732

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $12.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $200.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $24.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $400.00



                                        1

