 BLADE3D- THREE-DIMENSIONAL, INVISCID, ROTATIONAL FLOWS WITH SHOCK WAVES
IN AXIAL COMPRESSOR BLADE ROWS

( MASSACHUSETTS INST. OF TECH. )

     The BLADE3D computer program provides for the calculation of the in-
viscid flow field in a fully three-dimensional blade passage of an axial
compressor rotor or stator. For many analysis problems in turbomachinery,
an assumption of inviscid flow provides sufficiently accurate results for
design or development tasks. An accurate inviscid calculation is of great
benefit for compressor design since viscous and shock losses can be re-
duced if the inviscid flow can be predicted. Inviscid flow solutions can
also greatly improve the design point performance of high speed axial com-
pressors. BLADE3D provides the engineer with an accurate inviscid solu-
tion capability. The program is applicable to arbitrary axial compressor
hub, tip, and blade geometries, including rotors with dampers (part-span
shrouds). The analysis method employed in BLADE3D is valid for subsonic,
transonic, and supersonic flows, including choked flows. BLADE3D may also
be used for flow calculations in axial turbines, but with lowered resolu-
tion in sections of the flow.

     The BLADE3D analysis program uses MacCormack's explicit time-marching
finite difference algorithm in split operator form to solve the unsteady
Euler equations. This technique captures shock waves automatically and
smears them over several grid points. The program provides the capability
to use either the non-conservation law forms or the weak conservation law
forms of the Euler equations in the solution. A set of analytical stretch-
ing functions is used to map the bounding surfaces into a square computa-
tional domain. These transforms accommodate any hub or tip casing shape and
almost any blade shape. Comparisons between BLADE3D results and measured
results for a low aspect ratio transonic compressor show that the computed
flow fields accurately modeled the measured shock wave locations and the
overall aerodynamic performance.

     Input to BLADE3D consists of the blade row geometry, operating condi-
tions, and theromodynamic quantities. The finite difference computational
grid is generated by a utility program, MESH3D, from coordinate pairs de-
scribing hub and tip casing shapes, coordinate pairs describing the loca-
tion of blade row leading and trailing edges, coordinate pairs describing
damper geometry, and coordinates describing the blade row geometry. MESH3D
also computes coordinate stretching derivatives for use by BLADE3D. Out-
put quantities from BLADE3D include three velocity components, density,
and internal energy at each mesh point. A post-processing utility program,
GRAPH3D, uses the BLADE3D solution file to calculate total pressures, Mach
numbers, and streamline locations. GRAPH3D also generates various printer
and plotter outputs for visual display of the BLADE3D solution. Since a so-
lution may involve a lengthy calculation, BLADE3D provides the user with a
check point/restart capability.

     BLADE3D and its utility programs are written in FORTRAN IV for batch
execution and have been implemented on a DEC PDP-11/70. Care was taken to
keep these programs as machine independent as possible. The programs have



                                        1

been implemented on several main frames and minicomputers with little or no
modifications. These programs were developed in 1982.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: DEC PDP-11/70

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 5,854 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LEW-13910

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $37.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $74.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        2

