
                              Preface


For a quick overview and a guided tour of INCA's basic capabilities
read the INCA Primer (Volume I).  Use the INCA Reference Manual
(Volume II) for more information on INCA's versatile capabilities, or
if a description of a specific command is required.  The INCA Theory
Manual (Volume III) provides descriptions of the analytic algorithms
and the program architecture. 

This program was originally based on LSAP (Linear Systems Analysis
Program) developed by D. J. Duven at Iowa State University.  That
program was written in PL/I and was limited for use on IBM machines. 

A second version of LSAP was created in PASCAL by T. P. Weis with help
from D. J. Balaban, H. R. Brand, S. M. Lanning, and R. K. Yamauchi.
The control system engineer responsible for the development was C. J.
Herget. The effort was supported by the enzyme Research Project at
Lawrence Livermore Laboratory under the direction of J. W. Frazier. 

The present program was rewritten and greatly expanded for use on the
VAX computer at Goddard Space Flight Center by J. P. Downing (Old
Dominion Systems, Inc.).  The control system engineer responsible for
the development was F. H. Bauer (Code_712.4).  This project was
carried out by Old Dominion Systems under contracts NAS5-27242 and
NAS5-29177 under the direction of J. D. Azzolini (Code_712.1).  We
would also like to thank M. D. Femiano (Code_712.3) and G. E. Morduch
(ODS) for mathematical help in developing the Z domain algorithms, A.
H. Forbes (ODS) for developing many of the terminal drivers, and C. J.
Thorpe for developing the INCA version 2.0x conversion routines, the
screen editor and the hardcopy drivers.  We would like to thank Tobin 
C. Anthony for the describing function capabilities.  In addition, we
would also like to thank the other members of the Guidance and Control
Branch (Code_712) for their help, ideas, comments, and debugging aid. 

