 VASP- VARIABLE DIMENSION AUTOMATIC SYNTHESIS PROGRAM

( NASA Ames Research Center )

     VASP is a variable dimension Fortran version of the Automatic Synthe-
sis Program, ASP. The program is used to implement Kalman filtering and con-
trol theory. Basically, it consists of 31 subprograms for solving most mod-
ern control problems in linear, time-variant (or time-invariant) control
systems. These subprograms include operations of matrix algebra, compu-
tation of the exponential of a matrix and its convolution integral, and the
solution of the matrix Riccati equation. The user calls these subprograms
by means of a FORTRAN main program, and so can easily obtain solutions to
most general problems of extremization of a quadratic functional of the
state of the linear dynamical system. Particularly, these problems include
the synthesis of the Kalman filter gains and the optimal feedback gains for
minimization of a quadratic performance index.

     VASP, as an outgrowth of the Automatic Synthesis Program, has the fol-
lowing improvements: more versatile programming language; more convenient
input/output format; some new subprograms which consolidate certain groups
of statements that are often repeated; and variable dimensioning. The per-
tinent difference between the two programs is that VASP has variable dimen-
sioning and more efficient storage. The documentation for the VASP program
contains a VASP dictionary and example problems. The dictionary contains
a description of each subroutine and instructions on its use. The example
problems include dynamic response, optimal control gain, solution of the
sampled data matrix Riccati equation, matrix decomposition, and a pseudo-
inverse of a matrix.

     This program is written in FORTRAN IV and has been implemented on the
IBM 360. The VASP program was developed in 1971.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 360 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,040 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: ARC-10616

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $71.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $142.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        1

