 TAP- THERMAL ANALYZER PROGRAM

( ROCKETDYNE )

     This program solves N-dimensional transient heat transfer problems by
the analysis of an analogous network of nodes joined by conductors. A ca-
pacitance, C, a heat generation rate, Q, and a temperature, T, are associ-
ated with each node. A conductance, K, is associated with each conductor.

     The object under study is divided into convenient volumes, called
nodes. Each node is assigned an identification number. The conductors rep-
resent resistance to heat transfer by the various heat flow paths; i.e.,
conduction, convection, and radiation. The temperatures at all nodes are
computed at successive time intervals.

     The network parameters, K and C, may be either constant or functions
of temperature and/or time. The heat generation, Q, may also be a function
of temperature and/or time. If variable, K, C, and Q are evaluated at the
beginning of each time interval. In addition, the temperature, T, may be
specified at any node as a function of time.

     The conductors may represent conduction, convection, or radiation
paths.

     Convection and radiation are evaluated at the beginning of each time
interval. Conduction, if variable, may be made a function of the average
temperature of the two connecting nodes. Such conduction is evaluated at
the beginning of each time interval.

     The program is unable to handle pure steady-state problems; however,
any node may be made a steady-state node (so long as it is not connected to
any other steady-state node) by assigning to its capacitance the value
zero. Temperatures computed for linked zero-capacitance nodes can be in
error.

     This program has been implemented on the IBM 360 with H compiler. It is
written in FORTRAN IV and was developed in 1964.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 360 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 1,062 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: MFS-18410

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $21.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $300.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $42.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $600.00



                                        1

