 SIMRAND I- SIMULATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

( Cal Tech/Jet Propulsion Lab. )

     The Simulation of Research and Development Projects program (SIMRAND)
aids in the optimal allocation of R&D resources needed to achieve project
goals. SIMRAND models the system subsets or project tasks as various net-
work paths to a final goal. Each path is described in terms of task vari-
ables such as cost per hour, cost per unit, availability of resources, etc.
Uncertainty is incorporated by treating task variables as probabilistic
random variables. SIMRAND calculates the measure of preference for each
alternative network. The networks yielding the highest utility function
(or certainty equivalence) are then ranked as the optimal network paths.
SIMRAND has been used in several economic potential studies at NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory involving solar dish power systems and photovoltaic
array construction. However, any project having tasks which can be reduced
to equations and related by measures of preference can be modeled.

     SIMRAND analysis consists of three phases: reduction, simulation, and
evaluation. In the reduction phase, analytical techniques from probabil-
ity theory and simulation techniques are used to reduce the complexity of
the alternative networks. In the simulation phase, a Monte Carlo simula-
tion is used to derive statistics on the variables of interest for each al-
ternative network path. In the evaluation phase, the simulation statis-
tics are compared and the networks are ranked in preference by a selected
decision rule. The user must supply project subsystems in terms of equa-
tions based on variables (for example, parallel and series assembly line
tasks in terms of number of items, cost factors, time limits, etc). The as-
sociated cumulative distribution functions and utility functions for each
variable must also be provided (allowable upper and lower limits, group de-
cision factors, etc).

     SIMRAND is written in Microsoft FORTRAN 77 for batch execution and has
been implemented on an IBM PC series computer operating under DOS.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN 77

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM PC SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 3,146 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 5.25 Inch IBM PC DOS Format Diskette

PROGRAM NUMBER: NPO-16937

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $25.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $300.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $50.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $600.00



                                        1

