 IPEG- IMPROVED PRICE ESTIMATION GUIDELINES

( Cal Tech/Jet Propulsion Lab. )

     The Improved Price Estimation Guidelines, IPEG, program provides a
simple yet accurate estimate of the price of a manufactured product. IPEG
facilitates sensitivity studies of price estimates at considerably less
expense than would be incurred by using the Standard Assembly-line Manufac-
turing Industry Simulation, SAMIS, program (COSMIC program NPO-16032). A
difference of less than one percent between the IPEG and SAMIS price esti-
mates has been observed with realistic test cases. However, the IPEG sim-
plification of SAMIS allows the analyst with limited time and computing re-
sources to perform a greater number of sensitivity studies than with SAMIS.
Although IPEG was developed for the photovoltaics industry, it is readily
adaptable to any standard assembly line type of manufacturing industry.

     IPEG estimates the annual production price per unit. The input data
includes cost of equipment, space, labor, materials, supplies, and util-
ities. Production on an industry wide basis or a process wide basis can be
simulated. Once the IPEG input file is prepared, the original price is es-
timated and sensitivity studies may be performed. The IPEG user selects
a sensitivity variable and a set of values. IPEG will compute a price es-
timate and a variety of other cost parameters for every specified value of
the sensitivity variable. IPEG is designed as an interactive system and
prompts the user for all required information and offers a variety of output
options.

     The IPEG/PC program is written in TURBO PASCAL for interactive execu-
tion on an IBM PC computer under DOS 2.0 or above with at least 64K of mem-
ory. The IBM PC color display and color graphics adapter are needed to use
the plotting capabilities in IPEG/PC. IPEG/PC was developed in 1984. The
original IPEG program is written in SIMSCRIPT II.5 for interactive execu-
tion and has been implemented on an IBM 370 series computer with a central
memory requirement of approximately 300K of 8 bit bytes. The original IPEG
was developed in 1980.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



                                 IBM 370 VERSION

LANGUAGE: SIMSCRIPT

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 370 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 4,651 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: NPO-15569

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $57.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $200.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $114.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $400.00



                                        1




                                 IBM PC VERSION

LANGUAGE: PASCAL

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM PC

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,363 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 5.25 Inch IBM PC DOS Format Diskette

PROGRAM NUMBER: NPO-16583

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $57.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $200.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $114.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $400.00



                                        2

