#3[1m     EXTRA, EXTRA, NEWS [5mFLASH[0m
#4[1m     EXTRA, EXTRA, NEWS [5mFLASH[0m

#6       BUGOUT has bugs!!!!!

Confidential sources today reported that earlier versions of BUGOUT have had 
several BUGS in them!  The developer is reported in good condition today from 
county general hospital were he was rushed after collapsing from what one 
doctor reported to be, "the worst case of embarrasment I've ever seen".  An 
informed insider has leaked the news that in addition to correcting the bugs, 
the developer has also added the long-awaited variable checking and 
cross-reference feature.

In a related story, new subprograms have been added to MERLIB.  Film at 11:00.
Newcomers to the FORTRAN tools package are EIGHTY and UNEIGHTY (transportable 
FORTRAN programs which enable the exchange of files with record lengths 
greater than eighty bytes even with devices or software that only supports 
card-image data) and CHECK72 (a program to verify that no source code was 
typed beyond column 80 of a source file).  These programs purportedly 
accomplish this feat by squeezing the file down to eighty byte records while 
maintaining the actual record length internally.  Since the programs are 
written in ANSI-standard FORTRAN 77 they can readily be transported to any 
new system that supports FORTRAN 77.  A new option in FORTLIST allows the
source code form included files to be expanded in the printout.

Information has been obtained from an unnamed person (the proverbial reliable 
source) that there are also two new NAMELIST-like IO packages which are easy to 
use and unusually transportable.  These packages were, reputedly, developed to 
enable transporting Vax FORTRAN programs to an IBM PC.

For more details see BUGOUT.DOC, MERLIB.DOC, CHECK72.HLP, FORTLIST.HLP, 
NAMEIO.DOC, SNAMEIO.DOC, and [UN]EIGHTY.HLP.
