 COMPSIZE - PRELIMINARY DESIGN METHOD FOR FIBER REINFORCED COMPOSITE
STRUCTURES

( NASA Marshall Space Flight Center )

     The Composite Structure Preliminary Sizing program, COMPSIZE, is an
analytical tool which structural designers can use when doing approximate
stress analysis to select or verify preliminary sizing choices for compos-
ite structural members. It is useful in the beginning stages of design con-
cept definition, when it is helpful to have quick and convenient approxi-
mate stress analysis tools available so that a wide variety of structural
configurations can be sketched out and checked for feasibility. At this
stage of the design process the stress/strain analysis does not need to be
particularly accurate because any configurations tentatively defined as
feasible will later be analyzed in detail by stress analysis specialists.
The emphasis is on fast, user-friendly methods so that rough but techni-
cally sound evaluation of a broad variety of conceptual designs can be ac-
complished.

     Analysis equations used are, in most cases, widely known basic struc-
tural analysis methods. All the equations used in this program assume
elastic deformation only. The default material selection is intermediate
strength graphite/epoxy laid up in a quasi-isotropic laminate. A general
flat laminate analysis subroutine is included for analyzing arbitrary lam-
inates. However, COMPSIZE should be sufficient for most users to presume a
quasi-isotropic layup and use the familiar basic structural analysis meth-
ods for isotropic materials, after estimating an appropriate elastic modu-
lus. Homogeneous materials can be analyzed as simplified cases.

     The COMPSIZE program is written in IBM BASICA. The program format is
interactive. It was designed on an IBM Personal Computer operating under
DOS with a central memory requirement of approximately 128K. It has been
implemented on an IBM compatible with GW-BASIC under DOS 3.2. COMPSIZE was
developed in 1985.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: BASIC

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM PC SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 2,038 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 5.25 Inch IBM PC DOS Format Diskette

PROGRAM NUMBER: MFS-27153

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $19.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $350.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $38.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $700.00



                                        1

