 PILOT- PARAMETERIZED INVESTIGATION OF LAUNCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TRAJECTO-
RIES

( COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP. )

     The launch window for an earth satellite mission defines the dates and
the times of day that a satellite can be launched and satisfy the mission
constraints. The Parameterized Investigation of Launch Opportunities and
Trajectories (PILOT) program was developed to perform mission simulation
computations that yield data for use in delimiting optimum launch windows.
The PILOT program performs parametric scans of a user specified trajectory
over launch date and initital right ascension of the ascending node. Dur-
ing each scan various mission parameters are generated and output to a data
file.

     The CoPILOT utility program is used to read and format the PILOT gen-
erated data file. The user specifies acceptable limits on the various PI-
LOT generated parameters, CoPILOT checks the data, and generates an output
table with notations of any constraint violations. Any time that no con-
traints are violated, an acceptable launch time exists. For each date, the
acceptable launch times are printed. A printer plot may also be generated
to visually display the launch window.

     The PILOT and CoPILOT programs are written in FORTRAN IV for batch ex-
ecution and have been implemented on an IBM 360 series computer with a cen-
tral memory requirement of approximately 338K of 8 bit bytes. The PILOT and
CoPILOT programs were developed in 1979.

     COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.



LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: IBM 360 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 9,199 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: GSC-12801

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $56.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $500.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $112.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $1000.00



                                        1

